
Number of Questions...
 Submit
1. The Constitution
According to the Article I of the U.S. Constitution, members of which congressional body were to be selected by state legislatures for six-year terms?
Senate
2. Jefferson
What was Thomas Jefferson talking about below? The whole commerce is a perpetual exercise of the most unremitting despotism on the one part, and degrading submissions on the other. Indeed I tremble for my country when I reflect that God is just.
slavery
3. Russia
Name Russia's largest port city on the Pacific Ocean.
Vladivostok
4. Voice
Transform this sentence into passive voice. J.J. painted the bird.
The bird was painted by J.J.
5. Astronomy
There is a systematic uniformity in the motion of the planets. All travel around the Sun from west to east in nearly the same plane called the ...
ecliptic
6. Lofty Locations
Nine of the world's ten highest peaks are in what mountain system?
Himalayas
7. Modifiers
What is the superlative form of 'audacious'?
most (least) audacious
8. Abbreviations
What is the abbreviation for 'Sergeant'?
Sgt.
9. Unemployment
A temporary dismissal or suspension of workers is a ...
layoff
10. Technology
In what household device does a magnetron produce waves with wavelengths of about five thousandths of an inch which cause water molecules to vibrate?
microwave
11. Economics
Capitalism is an economic system in which the means of production are owned privately, and businesses produce goods for a market dominated by what two forces?
supply and demand
12. Perfect Tenses
Restate this sentence in the future perfect. I goofed.
| will have goofed.
13. Inventions
What invention allowed people in Washington D.C. to find out, more than two hours before the fastest train from Baltimore arrived, that the Whigs had nominated Henry Clay for president?
telegraph
14. Essays
Eighty-five essays comprise 'The Federalist.' At least fifty-one of these papers were written by whom?
Alexander Hamilton
15. First Aid
The following is part of a treatment for what condition accompanying an injury? Maintain circulation by keeping the patient lying down with head lower than the body. Slightly elevate the lower extremities.
shock
16. Steam Engines
Many early steam engines exploded because the iron used to build them could not withstand high pressures. What stronger, harder alloy of iron and carbon enabled more durable steam engines to be built?
steel
17. Bones
The outer and more slender of the two bones of the shin is the ...
fibula
18. Eye Physiology
Reflex contraction of the iris of the eye causes a reduction in the diameter of what other part of the eye?
pupil
19. Forest Fire Fighting
What is the name for a strip of land burned or plowed to stop the spread of an oncoming fire?
firebreak (firequard)
20. Inventors
Gideon Welles, Lincoln's secretary of the navy, enlisted John Ericcson to build an ironclad gunship for the Union. What ship did he design?
Monitor
21. Anthropology
What form of man was named from the first discovery of a skullcap and some limb bones in a cave of the Neander Valley in Germany?
Neanderthal man
22. Pirates
What legendary pirate is associated with these? Oak Island, Nova Scotia Gardiners Island, New York Poe's 'The Gold Bug' Stevenson's 'Treasure Island'
Captain (William) Kidd
23. Maxims
What word that rhymes with 'sibilance' completes this maxim? The price of liberty is eternal ...
vigilance
24. Weddings
Who in 1981 married Lady Diana Spencer?
Prince Charles
25. Symbols
With a name including a prefix meaning 'five,' what symbol with the appearance of a star is drawn with five straight strokes?
pentagram (pentangle, pentalpha)
26. Jules Verne
In what work by Jules Verne does a hot-air balloon carrying five passengers and a dog get blown off course and land on an obscure island?
The Mysterious Island
27. Marbles
Mr. Perot had 1000 more than 3 times the number of marbles possessed by Mr. Quayle. Together they had exactly 29,000 marbles. How many marbles did Mr. Perot have?
22,000
28. Transportation Milestones
What waterway built between 1817 and 1832 provided a navigable route from the Atlantic Ocean to the Great Lakes?
Erie Canal
29. Novels
What novel begins with this line? 'Christmas won't be Christmas without any presents,' grumbled Jo, lying on the rug.
Little Women
30. Legislative Geography
How many senators are from those states with borders
contiguous to California?
31. Nouns
What kind of nouns, singular in their base forms, names groups of people or things?
collective nouns
32. Craftsmen
What is the term for skilled craftsmen who make such items as clothing, jewelry, furniture, household items, and tools?
artisan
33. Underground Vistas
What U.S. national park features the world's most extensive cave system?
Mammoth Cave National Park
34. Seas
Name the sea immediately east of the Kamchatka Peninsula.
Bering Sea
35. Spoonerisms
Correct this spoonerism. herd in the band
bird in the hand
36. Seaweed
What kind of marine algae may exceed 30 meters in length?
kelp
37. Branches of Government
The judicial branch of the government exercises its check on which other branch of government through judicial review?
legislative
38. Mass
In the MKS system, what is the unit of mass?
kilogram
39. Multiple Meanings
What word has these meanings? -liable or tending to -inclined or willing to -lying flat with the face down
prone
40. Snakes
You are on a sand dune in the Mojave Desert and notice a series of short parallel lines. This could indicate that what kind of rattlesnake had recently been there?
sidewinder
41. Bird Populations
If 5/8 of the pheasants at the Birds-R-Us Farm are males and the total pheasant population there is 2400, how many girl pheasants are there?
900
42. Seas
Since the Laccadive Sea is off the southwest coast of India, what larger sea is immediately to its west?
Arabian Sea
43. Historical Documents
What document emerged from the Philadelphia Convention of 1787?
the U.S. Constitution
44. City Nicknames
Motown is the nickname for what U.S. city?
Detroit
45. Machines
A screw is simply a cylinder with what simple machine wrapped around it?
inclined plane
46. Quadrilaterals
Quadrilateral ABCD is a parallelogram with congruent diagonals. It must be a what kind of quadrilateral?
rectangle
47. Sets
The set of multiples of 5 is what type of mathematical set?
infinite
48. Great Lakes
Name the four Great Lakes shared by Canada and the US.
Superior, Huron, Erie, Ontario
49. Climates
What major climate zone is located along the equator?
tropical zone
50. European Leaders
This is about whom? During the last few months he rarely left the Berlin underground bunker. He fluctuated between fits of rage and brooding.
Adolf Hitler
51. Imaginative Responses
What figure of speech did Theodore Roosevelt use when he said this about Oliver Wendell Holmes? I could carve out of a banana a judge with more backbone than that.
hyperbole
52. Theaters
In what kind of theater does the audience surround the stage?
theater in the round
53. Weapons
What device used since the Paleolithic serves as an extension of a hunter's throwing arm and allows spears to be hurled with greater velocity than that possible with just the unaided arm?
atlatl
54. Antagonists
Who is the antagonist in 'The Virginian'?
Trampas
55. Bleak Opinions
This is from a report by a 19th-century government surveyor about what vast U.S. region? It is almost wholly unfit for cultivation and uninhabitable by a people depending upon agriculture for subsistence. The scarcity of wood and water, almost uniformly prevalent, will prove an insuperable obstacle in the way of settling the country.
Great Plains (Great American Desert)
56. Lakes
Titicaca is the second-largest lake of South America. Name the largest.
Maracaibo
57. Dance
What name for an animated Spanish dance rhymes with 'mango'?
fandango
58. Triangular Trade
One part of triangular trade involved what thick syrup produced in refining raw sugar?
molasses
59. Outdoor Misbehavior
What misdeed is committed when game or fish is taken out of season or on restricted land or by illegal means?
poaching
60. Economic Homonyms
What term that can indicate a type of plant with aromatic foliage or a kind of candy also has these denotations? -undamaged, perfect condition -an abundant amount -to fabricate -a place where coins are manufactured
mint
61. Circle Percentages
By what percent is the area of a circle diminished if the radius of a circle is diminished by 20%?
36%
62. California Captains
Who is the captain indicated in this account? The captain was writing a letter one afternoon when Mr. Marshall burst into the room and said that he had 'intelligence' that would put both of them into possession of unheard of wealth. The captain thought that something had touched Marshall's brain until Marshall flung on the table a handful of pure virgin gold.
John Sutter
63. Alkaloids
Name one of the most toxic and addicting of all poisons, an alkaloid concentrated in the leaves of the tobacco plant.
nicotine
64.
Which of the six smallest countries in Europe is a Mediterranean island?
Malta
65. Freedoms
Which of the Four Freedoms elucidated by Franklin Roosevelt in his 1941 State of the Union address is missing from this list? -freedom of speech and expression -freedom from want -freedom from fear
freedom of worship
66.
In contrast to a unitary government in which a central authority holds the power or a confederation in which the member states are clearly dominant, what 'ism' indicates a type of government where power is divided between the national government and other governmental units?
federalism
67. State Populations
In 1787, the population of what state was more than twice as large as New York, more than four times as large as New Jersey, and more than ten times as large as Delaware?
Virginia
68. Terraforming
The terraforming of the planet Venus would require that most of what pervasive gas be removed from its atmosphere?
carbon dioxide
69. Territories
What territorial name for a British colony in Africa was based on the surname of a British mining magnate?
Rhodesia
70. International Relations
What prompted Jimmy Carter to deny Soviets fishing rights in American waters and suspend grain sales to the U.S.S.R.?
Soviet invasion of Afghanistan
71. Rock
What fine-grained sedimentary rock consisting chiefly of calcite is formed either as a chemical precipitate or by consolidation of shell fragments?
limestone
72. Fuels
While petroleum and natural gas formed mainly from the remains of microscopic sea life, coal formed from the decayed remains of what?
plants
73. Prescience
What was the physicist talking about in the 1940s when he wrote this? This thing must not be permitted to exist on this Earth. We must not be the most hated and feared people in the world.
atomic bomb (nuclear weapons)
74. Legends
With what state are the legends of Kaena Point, Nanaue the shark man, and the ghost sisters of Hilo Hills associated?
Hawaii
75. Curves
A squashed or elongated circle is called an ...
ellipse (oval)
76. Milestones
Name the 184-pound satellite that orbited the Earth every 96.1 minutes in 1957, sending shock waves throughout Washington, D.C.
Sputnik
77. Wartime
The only North American territory occupied by the Japanese in World War II was a couple of islands in what archipelago?
Aleutians (Aleutian Islands)
78. Mineralogy
What mineral has these characteristics? -perfect cubic cleavage -transparent to translucent -glassy to dull luster -colorless streak -hardness of 2.5 -comprised of sodium chloride
halite (or rock salt or salt)
79. Fossils
Ancient insects were sometimes trapped in amber, a fossil resin from cone-bearing, evergreen, needle-leaved trees collectively known as ...
conifers
80. New Coins
A quarter commemorating what state was released in 1999 featuring Washington crossing the Delaware?
New Jersey
81. Geology
Loose material such as clay, mud, silt, sand, gravel, pebbles, cobbles, and even boulders that has settled out from suspension in water or ice is collectively known as what?
sediment
82. Presidential Messages
What president wrote this to his family? This will be a historical day. This morning, I must make a broadcast announcing the German surrender. Mr. Churchill began calling me at daylight to ask if we shouldn't make an immediate release without considering the Russians.
Harry Truman
83. Floodplains
More than three millennia ago, the fertile floodplains of what two rivers nurtured the civilizations of Assyria and Babylonia?
Tigris, Euphrates
84. Physical Science
A glass may be filled with water such that the amount of water actually exceeds the volume of the glass without spilling. This is due to the principle of surface ...
tension
85. Failed Legislation
One reason the Comprehensive Immigration Reform Act of 2007 failed to pass the Senate was that it included provisions for what critics called the 'A' word. What is the 'A' word?
amnesty
86. U
This is from what poem? And so, all the night-tide, I lie down by the side Of my darling, my darling, my life and my bride In her sepulcher there by the sea - In her tomb by the side of the sea.
Annabel Lee
87. Asian Nations
For what does the abbreviation stand in this? Tibet is administered by the PRC.
People's Republic of China
88. Planets
What is the only dwarf planet in the asteroid belt?
Ceres
89. Novels
Who is the narrator in the novel, 'Sarah, Plain and Tall'?
Anna (the farmer's daughter)
90. Superlatives
Which superlative form of 'old' denotes superiority in age along with the implication of being old?
eldest
91. Oceanography
Earthquakes, submarine landslides, submarine volcanic eruptions, and large meteorite impacts in the ocean can all cause what kind of enormous waves?
tsunamis (seismic sea waves)
92. Sailing
If you sail due west from any point on the western coast of Iceland, what is the next land mass you would encounter?
Greenland
93. Skills
In child development, gross motor skills include walking and running. What kind of skills include grasping small objects, drawing, and writing?
fine motor skills
94. Music Notation
What Italian musical term means 'tied together'?
legato
95. Compensation
A payment made to an employee over and above a regular salary or wage as an incentive or reward is a ...
bonus
96. Purchasing Plans
By using what kind of purchasing plan can you make a down payment and then pay more as you are able until you completely pay for the item the store has been holding for you?
layaway plan
97. Nicknames
These are nicknames of people who held what title in American history? His Obstinacy The Lion The Sphinx of the Potomac Tricky Dick The Gipper Slick Willie Shrub
president
98. Travel Problems
Wally took off in his dune buggy heading due west across the desert at 30 miles per hour. Ten minutes later, Wendy also headed due west along Wally's track at 35 miles per hour. How long will it take Wendy to catch Wally?
1 hour (or 60 minutes)
99. Seas
What body of water separates Venezuela from the Dominican Republic?
Caribbean Sea
100. Sculpture Suffixes
By adding a suffix to 'statue,' you form what term indicating a small statue?
statuette
101. Colonists
Name the group of French Protestants who settled mainly in the Carolinas.
Huguenots
102. Treaties
The Treaties of Payne's Landing and Fort Gibson authorized removal of what tribe from Florida to beyond the Mississippi?
Seminole
103. Science History
What medieval science is suggested by the title, 'Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone'?
alchemy
104. Novel Dialogue
Identify the master in this dialogue. 'Look there and see those thirty or so wild giants.' 'What giants?' asked Sancho. 'The ones you can see over there,' answered his master, 'with the huge arms, some of which are very nearly two leagues long.' 'Now look, your grace,' said Sancho. 'What you see over there aren't giants. but windmills.' ,
Don Quixote
105. The European Union
The names of what two countries that adopted the euro as their sole legal tender begin with the letter 'F'?
France, Finland
106. Travel Problems
A bus leaves Yuma going westward at 50 mph. A second bus leaves from the same station going eastward at 60 mph. If they both leave at noon, how far apart are they at 3:30?
385 miles
107. Institutions Abroad
What kind of institution was founded in the year 529 by St. Benedict at Monte Cassino in central Italy?
monastery
108. Oxides
Name either of the chief iron oxide minerals that occur abundantly at or near the Earth's surface.
hematite, limonite
109. Axioms of Physics
Complete this axiom of physical science. Where the speed is great, the pressure is ...
small (little, diminished, etc.)
110. Syllogisms
In a conditional syllogism, if A is true then what is the truth value of B?
true
111. Printing
Chinese and Korean printers experimented with movable type using wood, pottery, and bronze. None of these attempts was successful because their languages include many thousands of characters. What German needed only 300 characters to print his first book in 1456?
Johannes Gutenberg
112. Murder Synonyms
What specific kind of murder is central in all these books? The Awful End of Prince William the Silent Oswald's Tale: An American Mystery The Lincoln Conspiracy The Day Kennedy Was Shot
assassination
113. Procedures for the Public Good
What is the purpose of these processes? ultrafiltration, carbon treatment, reverse osmosis, UV radiation, filtration, deionization, disinfection, chlorination, distillation, and electro-dialysis
water purification
114. Thunder
About how many seconds does it take the thunder from a lightning strike to be heard two miles away?
ten seconds
115. Oceanic Landforms
Name the steep, conical, underwater volcanic peaks with flat summits that rise toward the surface from the ocean floor.
seamounts
116.
What kind of lawsuit is illustrated when several customers join together and sue a utility company on behalf of all that company's customers claiming it has been overcharging them?
class action
117.
What was the name for the alliance of France, Russia, Great Britain, the United States, and nearly twenty other nations who opposed and defeated the Central Powers in World War I?
Allies (Allied Powers)
118. Geographical Goofs
What is wrong with this statement made by the U.S. president in 2013? If we don't deepen our ports all along the Gulf - places like Charleston, South Carolina, or Savannah, Georgia, or Jacksonville, Florida - those ships are going to go someplace else.
These cities are on Atlantic coast.
119. Verb Categories
Verbs such as 'blush' and 'slouch' do not require a complement to complete their meaning. Such verbs are ...
intransitive
120. Birds
The shape of a hummingbird's wing stroke resembles
what number?
121. Contagion
The time that elapses between exposure to a pathogen and the appearance of symptoms of the associated disorder is known as what period?
incubation (or latency) period
122. Isobars
At the end of each isobar on a weather map is a number showing the atmospheric pressure in inches of what substance?
mercury
123. Allusions
The name for a subversive group or device placed within enemy ranks alludes to what gift left at the gates of Troy?
Trojan horse
124. Mountain Belts
The Ethiopian Highlands are closest to what major body of water?
Indian Ocean
125. Industrialists
Charles Goodyear is credited as the first to do what to rubber?
vulcanize it (cure it)
126. Poisons
What is the collective name for poisons injected by snake or insect bites?
venom
127. Etymology
These words came into English from what language? poppycock, coleslaw, monsoon, polder, keelhaul, muddle, harpoon, patroon
Dutch
128. Zoological Catastrophes
This is about what mammals? Within only thirty years, the original twenty-four had reproduced exponentially to millions and inhabited the states of Victoria, New South Wales, Queensland, and South Australia, devastating large areas of once relatively fertile lands.
rabbits
129. Dramatic Characters
A character in a play so different from another in stature, appearance, or personality that the other is highlighted by the contrast is called a ...
foil
130. Spectroscopy
What is the spectral color of a star with a surface temperature above 30,000 degrees K?
blue
131. Alcohol
What kind of alcohol fuel and gasoline substitute is made from coal, wood, natural gas, or even garbage?
methanol
132. History of Mexico
The name of what people who controlled most of central Mexico prior to the Aztecs was taken from their capital city of Tollan?
Toltec
133. Learning
Pavlov's dogs learned to salivate at the sound of a bell. Then for a long time no food accompanied the bell and eventually the dogs quit salivating. This kind of conditioning is known by what name associated with dinosaurs and dodos?
extinction
134. Last Words
In 1692, what were the last two words uttered by Giles Corey in Salem, Massachusetts?
More weight.
135. Prospecting
Prospectors have checked petrified wood with Geiger counters and have found some individual logs contain tens of thousands of dollars worth of what mineral used as fuel in nuclear reactors?
uranium
136. Character's Ambitions
What did J.D. Salinger's character, Holden Caulfield, say was the only thing he would really like to be?
a catcher in the rye
137. Metaphors
To miss an opportunity is to let something slip through what part of your body?
your fingers
138. Scientific Notation
Express in scientific notation the quotient of (5.4 times (10 to the negative Ist power)) divided by (3.4 times (10 to the first power)).
1.588 times (10 to the negative 2nd power)
139. Palindromic Advice
What two words complete this palindrome? Cigar? Toss it in a can, it is ...
so tragic
140. Weather Phenomena
A waterspout results from what?
tornado over water
141. Military Organization
What is the rank of the officer who commands an army platoon?
lieutenant
142. Sobriquets
Who was the Strong Man of Cuba up until his overthrow by Fidel Castro in 1959?
Fulgencio Batista
143. Silliness
Complete this idle bit of speculation with the name for a Japanese food involving seaweed? If white wine goes with fish, do white grapes go with ...
sushi
144. Heavenly Regions
The region between the orbits of Mars and Jupiter where most asteroids are found is called the asteroid what?
belt
145. Hydrology
Name the level below the surface of the ground at which water is found.
water table
146. Combustion
Combustion always involves what element?
oxygen
147. Ozone
What is the mass of a mole of ozone?
48
148. Fragments
This sentence fragment consists of what kind of phrase? with his hand in the cookie jar
prepositional phrase
149. Moods
Reminiscent of a part of the Atlantic Ocean near the equator, a person in a state of listlessness or depression is in the ...
doldrums
150. Einsteinian Limericks
What word completes this ditty? There was an old man who observed, 'I confess I am somewhat unnerved. I had never before Seen the truth of the lore That, where matter is, space must be ...
curved
151. Town Names
In what state are there cities named after such people as General Richard Clinton, Sir Walter Raleigh, and Dr. Bartlett Durham?
North Carolina
152. Poetic Meter
What kind of meter is illustrated in this iambic verse? From fairest creatures we desire increase, That there by beauty's Rose might never die.
pentameter
153. The Sense of Smell
Odors are always transmitted by matter in what state?
gas
154. Civil Posts
In 17th-century Europe, people employed to make news announcements in the streets were called town what?
criers
155. Sports Subdivisions
Bantamweight, junior lightweight, welterweight, and cruiserweight are divisions in what professional sport?
boxing
156. Scientific Laws
According to the law of conservation of mass, matter can change form but it cannot be created or ...
destroyed
157. Space Exploration
What U.S. space program was named for the brother of Artemis who was the Greek god of prophecy, medicine, fine arts, and poetry?
Apollo
158. Industrial Change
The discovery of petroleum in Pennsylvania in the late 19th century was the beginning of the end of what U.S. industry with centers at Nantucket Island and Martha's Vineyard?
whaling
159. Extinction Math
Of the estimated 50 million species that ever lived on the planet Urdu, only about 0.1 percent of them exist today. So, about how many species are now extinct there?
49 950,000
160. Atrocities
The systematic killing off of entire racial or cultural groups is called ...
genocide
161. Marine Mammals
What type of whales dive deepest?
sperm whales
162. Creature Conversions
Bioluminescent organisms convert chemical energy to what other form of energy?
radiant (light, electromagnetic)
163. Sunscreens
Theoretically, someone who would ordinarily sunburn after 12 minutes without protection would burn after how many minutes if he were using a sunscreen with SPF 10?
120 minutes
164.
What compound word refers to the wings, dressing rooms, and other parts of a theater behind the proscenium and beyond the view of the audience?
backstage
165. Jonathan Swift
What place name completes this line from a book review of 'Gulliver's Travels'? Swift's scathing satire shows humans at their worst, whether diminished in Lilliput or grossly magnified in ...
Brobdingnag
166. Judges
Although he had studied law only briefly and had not judicial experience, who was appointed as chief justice by John Adams?
John Marshall
167. Speeches
What are the next three words in this excerpt from a 1973 speech by Richard Nixon? In all my years of public life, I have never obstructed justice. People have got to know whether or not their President is a crook. Well, I am...
not a crook
168. Technology History
The two men who established Apple Computer and helped launch the personal computer revolution were Steve Wozniak and who else?
Steve Jobs
169. Journalism History
Joseph Pulitzer and William Randolph Hearst are associated with a kind of journalism described by what color?
yellow
170. Canadian Celebrations
The Festival Acadien de Clare is to Nova Scotia as the Calgary Stampede is to what other province?
Alberta
171. Newspapers
Name the latest moment when newspaper copy can be submitted.
deadline
172. Revolutions
What month is associated with this 1917 revolutionary document? The provisional government is deposed. The state power has passed into the hands of the organ of the Petrograd Soviet of Workers.
October
173. Presidential Limitations
There was no constitutional limitation on the number of presidential terms of office a single individual might serve until after whose presidency?
Franklin Roosevelt's
174. Theories
Cosmologists use what adjective to describe the type of universe that would expand forever?
open
175. War Novels
These historical novels are about what war? Marching On Look Away Bloody Ground Rebel Cold Mountain Copperhead Escape from Andersonville
Civil War
176. Mineral Classifications
Name the scale used in classifying the hardness of minerals.
Mohs scale
177. Frontier Warmth
Popular in the Old West and Canada, name the wool blanket that was usually white with wide, contrasting stripes of color at either end.
Hudson's Bay Blanket
178. Materials Science
What characteristic of a material is determined by its ability to form a thin sheet by hammering or rolling?
malleability
179. Geological Metaphors
A geologist described them as 'stone ships that sail over the seas of time.' Name these major subdivisions of the Earth's crust.
plates
180. Sports Queries
What word completes this line by Vince Lombardi? If winning isn't everything, why do they keep ...
score
181. Cartesian Coordinates
In what quadrant is a -245 degree angle located?
quadrant II
182. Homophones
Spell the homophone for a fleshy fruit with a hard skin that sounds the same as the verb meaning 'pierced by an animal's horns.'
gourd
183. Bottled Water
In just the United States, 29 billion bottles of water are sold annually, requiring 17 million barrels of oil to make the plastic containers. To the nearest hundred, how many plastic water bottles can be made from one barrel of oil?
1700
184. Summertime
Name any one of the three relatively temperate summer months at McMurdo Station on Ross Island.
December, January, February
185. Mountain Formation
What mountain system is still being forced upward as India continues to push against the Asian plate?
Himalayas
186. Forest Biomes
The great boreal forests of Europe and Asia illustrate what biome?
taiga
187. Genetics
What letters name the sex chromosome in a female?
XX
188. Tissues
What kind of tissue consists of adipocytes?
adipose (fat) tissue
189. Decisive Battles
Sam Houston's army of 900 men soundly defeated Santa Anna's force of 1400 at the juncture of the Buffalo Bayou and what other river?
San Jacinto
190. Particles
The mass of a neutron is approximately equal to that of what other subatomic particle?
proton
191. Machines
Which simple machine is applied in escalators and loading ramps?
inclined planes
192. Palindromes
What name completes the palindrome that begins with these words? Sad? I'm...
Midas
193. 5
What corps is a musical marching unit consisting of brass instruments, percussion instruments, and a color guard?
drum and bugle corps
194. Work Problems
Plumber Mike can install the rough plumbing in a house in 16 days while plumber Mavis can do it in 8 days. If they work together for 4 days, what fraction of the entire job will be completed?
3/4
195. Ecosystems
While an ecosystem that consists of a wide variety of species is a polyculture, what kind of ecosystem is dominated by a single species?
monoculture
196. Ironworking History
Early iron smelters in America were fired by charcoal. What abundant natural substance proved to be far superior for this purpose?
coal
197. Reptiles
What kind of reptile has a carapace and a plastron?
turtle (tortoise, terrapin)
198. Industrial Fiascoes
What model of car, discontinued in 1960, was advertised under this motto? Looks right! Built right! Priced right!
Edsel
199. Desert Flora
What national park just east of Palm Springs, California, was named for a treelike plant with sword-shaped leaves named after the Hebrew leader who succeeded Moses as leader of Israel?
Joshua Tree National Park
200. Marine Zoology
The bodies of what marine invertebrates are riddled with pores that filter out food particles from the water passing through?
sponges
201. To Kill a Tree
Girdling involves cutting through the bark and what other layer of cells in a tree trunk?
cambium
202. Archaeology
Discovered in caves about 15 miles from Jerusalem between 1947 and 1956, what has been called the greatest manuscript discovery of modern times?
Dead Sea Scrolls
203. Foreign Programs
Between 1946 and 1955, a political, economic, and social program called Peronismo was pursued by the dictator of what country?
Argentina
204. Humor
What form of humor is used in these one-liners? -I used to work in a blanket factory, but it folded. -I fired my masseuse today because she rubbed me the wrong way. -I was a lumberjack but I just couldn't hack it, so they gave me the axe.
pun
205. Structures
These are the four fundamental styles of what? beam, cantilever, suspension, arch
bridges
206. 3
Which of the two types of chambers in a mammal's heart pumps blood out into the body?
ventricle
207. Employment
What practice is indicated by these definitions? -a $10 word meaning to stow your relatives in a soft berth -when your opponent puts a relative on the payroll -perverting public office into family property
nepotism
208. Rights
Which amendment prohibits a truckload of BATF agents from unexpectedly showing up at your home one day with no warrant and demanding to search the premises?
4th amendment
209. Jets
Jet and rocket engines exert a forward reaction force called ...
thrust
210. Respiratory Problems
A continuous, coarse, whistling sound in the chest during breathing is called ...
wheezing
211. Rights
Under the terms of the Taxpayer Bill of Rights, American citizens have some protection from what agency of the federal government?
Internal Revenue Service (IRS)
212. Medical Treatments
Injuries to which body system are most likely candidates for therapy involving traction?
skeletal system
213. Latin America
What South American country at the northern edge of the continent facing the Atlantic is bordered by Guyana, French Guiana, and Brazil?
Suriname
214. Explorers
What Norwegian who flew over the North Pole in a dirigible, the Norge, was the first to successfully navigate the Northwest Passage and first to reach the South Pole?
Roald Amundsen
215. Civil War Vocabulary
What term meaning 'to withdraw formally from membership in an organization' completes this quote by Robert E. Lee prior to the Civil War? Iam one of those dull creatures that cannot see the good of ...
secession (seceding)
216. Unnatural Catastrophes
This is about what city? Exploding with a force equal to 20,000 tons of TNT, Little Boy instantly killed some 80,000 of the 320,000 people in the city and leveled more than half of the buildings.
Hiroshima
217. Exiles
Who was first exiled to the island of Elba and later to the island of St. Helena?
Napoleon
218. Engineers
Willy Messerschmitt was a German engineer mostly remembered for designing and building a wide range of what?
airplanes (aircraft)
219. Weapons
A kiloton weapon has the explosive power of how many tons of TNT?
1000
220. Homonyms
Spell the term for a stringed musical instrument that is a homonym for a word meaning 'one who communicates false statements.'
lyre
221. Rock Ruptures
During an earthquake, energy moves away from the slipped fault in the form of what?
waves
222. Lows and Highs
Just five days before the failed invasion of Cuba at the Bay of Pigs, what Soviet astronaut had become the first human in space?
Yuri Gagarin
223. Governmental Antonyms
What is the opposite extreme of totalitarianism?
anarchism
224. Animal Chemistry
What is the collective name for chemicals secreted by animals that influence the behavior of other animals of the same species?
pheromones
225. Music Traditions
Name the Venetian boatmen who propel their craft by a single oar and sing barcaroles.
gondoliers
226. Legendary Furniture
What is the most notable piece of furniture that some authors say was made by Merlin the Magician?
the Round Table
227. War Vocabulary
What is the collective name for weapons that fire projectiles larger than one-half inch in diameter?
artillery
228. Symphonies
This narration is at the beginning of what symphonic work? Each character in the tale is represented by a different instrument in the orchestra - the bird by a flute, the duck by an oboe, the cat by a clarinet.
Peter and the Wolf
229. Regional Conflicts
In 1948, Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon, and Syria attacked but failed to destroy what country?
Israel
230. Vegetation
What is the term for the partially decayed vegetation that accumulates in moors, muskegs, swamp forests, mires, and bogs?
peat
231. Voting
The 187 stockholders of the Tricycle Superchargers Corporation of America recently met to vote on a proposed expansion of their business to include little red wagons. If 28 stockholders abstained, how many votes were needed for a majority?
80
232. Campaigns
In recent political campaigns, candidates have learned how to deliver 30-second radio or television messages which are short on actual information but long on style. These messages are called sound what?
bytes
233. Government Agencies
What federal agency provides medical services and educational benefits for people who have served in the American armed forces?
Veterans Administration
234. Natural Phenomena
Chinooks and monsoons are examples of what meteorological phenomena?
winds
235. Eye Injuries
Retinal detachment occurs when the retina becomes separated from what other layer of the eyeball?
choroid layer
236. Military Regalia
What is the color of the caps worn by members of the U.S. Army Special Forces who specialize in unconventional warfare?
Green
237. Organism Categories
Ecologically speaking, what is the collective name for organisms like fungi that break down and digest the remains of dead organisms?
decomposers
238. Insect Hormones
The hormone ecdysone makes insects shed their exoskeletons, a periodic process called what?
molting
239. Animal Diets
Because skunks eat little rodents, fruits, berries, birds, eggs, insects, lizards, and carrion, they are classified as what?
omnivores (omnivorous)
240. Reflexes
The diameter of what part of the eye changes in response to increased or diminished light?
pupil
241. Archaeology
The last principal period in the three age system for classifying prehistoric societies is the ...
lron Age
242. Freedom Fighters
The remarkable commander of the Argentine army who was destined to become the liberator of Chile and Peru was Jose de ...
San Martin
243. Tides
The highest high tides and the lowest low tides occur when what three bodies in the solar system are aligned?
Earth, Moon, Sun
244. Proportions
Determine x in this proportion.
x is to 4 as 6 is to 8
245. Traveling Songs
While at the Baltimore station on the way to his inauguration, Abraham Lincoln heard what song introduced by Dan Emmett in 1859 that had been adopted by the South as its unofficial anthem?
Dixie
246. Parodies
What play, had it been written by Dr. Seuss, might have included this soliloquy? I ask to be, or not to be. That is the question, I ask of me. This sullied life, it makes me shudder. My uncle's dating dear, sweet mother. Would I, could I take my life? Could I, should I, end this strife?
Hamlet
247. Canadian Ecology
Life in many eastern Canadian lakes has been virtually exterminated due to a mixture of industrial exhaust and water. What is the name for the precipitation thus formed?
acid rain
248. History of Space
What was the destination of the Apollo 11 space flight?
the Moon
249. Nice Neighbors
John Robie is a successful cat burglar. His neighbor, Clem Clouseau finds out and tells John that he will give his evidence to the cops unless John forks over $50,000. Clem has committed what crime?
blackmail (extortion)
250. Hair Problems
What atmospheric condition is mostly to blame for a bad-hair day?
high humidity (or precipitation, rain, fog, etc.)
251. Election Algebra
3600 votes were cast for the two candidates running for town undertaker. The winner received a majority of 240 votes. How many votes were cast for the loser?
1680
252. Energy
Which of the two kinds of energy do the cars of a roller coaster acquire as they are drawn to the top of the first incline?
potential
253. Aviation
As the plane came in for a landing, the air traffic controller said, 'Pig Sty One, you are cleared for runway 3.' After the plane landed, the pilot walked up to the controller and said, 'We had the governor of Montana on board and it's not Pig Sty One.' What was the actual name of the aircraft?
Big Sky One
254. Colonial Legislation
In 1765, General Thomas Gage, commander of all British military forces in America, asked the New York assembly to house and supply his troops in compliance with what Parliamentary act?
Quartering Act
255. Restrictions
'Time, place, and manner restrictions' relate to what right guaranteed in the Bill of Rights?
free speech
256. Bushwhackers
William Quantrill was on his way to Washington, D.C. to assassinate the president when he was killed by Union guerrillas in 1865. In any case, he would have been too late because what other person had already beaten him to it?
John Wilkes Booth
257. Armies
The United Nation armies that fought in the Korean War overwhelmingly consisted of soldiers from what country?
United States
258.
You traditionally wish a person good luck in what profession by saying 'break a leg'?
acting (dramatics, theater)
259. Clauses
What kind of subordinate clause modifies a noun or pronoun?
adjective clause
260. Law Enforcement
What is the abbreviation for a law enforcement officer in the U.S. Army?
MP
261. Condensation
The primary cause of condensation in the atmosphere is...
cooling
262. Word Tips
What kind of clues are illustrated in these lines? -His arguments are fallacious, deceptive, misleading, and wrong. -While she is garrulous, her sister is quiet. -His speech was somniferous, making it practically impossible for any listener to remain awake.
context clues
263. Rentals
Assam's Camel-Lot rents camels for $75 per week plus 9 cents per mile. What would the total cost be of a three week trip from Giza to Aswan if the distance is 490 miles?
$269.10
264. Allusions
The name of what literary character is missing from this comment by Justice Anthony Kennedy about serving on the Supreme Court? Sometimes you don't know if you're Caesar about to cross the Rubicon or Captain ---- cutting your own tow line.
Queeg
265.
From certain root words in this line by Robert Heinlein, you can tell the story is set where? I see in 'Lunaya Pravda' that Luna City Council has passed on first reading a bill to examine, license, inspect, and tax, public food vendors operating inside municipal pressure.
Moon
266. Nordic Geography
About 60% of the Nordic land area is accounted for by what enormous island?
Greenland
267. Ancient Cities
Name the most important prehistoric Minoan settlement on Crete.
Knossos
268. Mountain Ranges
What mountain range was formed by the convergence of the Juan De Fuca plate with another major plate?
Cascades
269. Ocean Waves
The highest point of an ocean wave is the ...
crest
270. Integer Problems
What odd integer between 600 and 800 is evenly divisible by both 7 and 9?
693
271. Poems
These are words of what American poet? -Of pancakes so thin they had only one side -Of the man so tall he must climb a ladder to shave himself -Of the herd of cattle in California getting lost in a giant redwood tree that had been hollowed out
Carl Sandburg
272. Ecology
The latitudinal diversity gradient is the decrease in species as the distance from what line of latitude increases?
0 degrees latitude (equator)
273. Hospitals
In a hospital, what is the meaning of the abbreviation, 'O.R.'?
operating room
274. Whitman
The assassination of Lincoln inspired Walt Whitman to write two of the most moving poems in American literature. One was 'When Lilacs Last in the Dooryard Bloom'd.' Name the other.
O Captain! My Captain!
275. Reptiles
What is the collective name for venomous snakes with hollow fangs to transmit venom and a pair of heat-sensing pits at the fronts of their heads?
pit vipers
276. Unusual Multiplication
Multiply the rent for a hotel on Boardwalk in Monopoly by the number of handles on a goblet.
zero
277. Identification Medals
Reminiscent of something required of most canine pets, what small, flat identification label is worn around the necks of military personnel?
dog tags
278. Stayin’ Alive
Organisms sometimes evolve the ability to avoid fatal encounters by deceiving predators into treating them as something else. This form of imitation is called defensive what?
mimicry
279. Wordplay
What is the name for the words in these two example sentences that are spelled exactly alike? -I subject my audience to elation when the subject of fishing comes up. -When our hero was close to the castle, they decided to close the gates.
heteronyms
280. Emperors
Akbar the Great was emperor of what land?
India
281. Electors
In what article of the Constitution does the phrase 'electoral college' appear?
no article (It is not in the Constitution.)
282. Weather Maps
What type of front is indicated on a weather map by a line from which black hemispheres and black triangles are alternately emerging from either side?
stationary front
283. World Geography
These are all names of what? Volga, Brahmaputra, Parana, Amur, Lena
rivers
284. Southwest History
What kind of ancient dwellings are featured at Canyon de Chelly and Mesa Verde National Park?
cliff dwellings
285. Head Bones
What bone forms the back of the human skull?
occipital bone
286. Journalism
What name was given to the early 20th-century investigative journalists who concentrated on exposing political corruption and social evils?
muckrakers
287. Archaeology
L'Anse aux Meadows in Newfoundland is the only settlement in the Americas that was definitely built by what European people?
Vikings (Norsemen)
288.
What is the name for works of art created with sticks of pigment and fillers mixed with gum and water, pressed and dried?
pastels
289. Air Masses
Tropical air masses are born in low-latitude areas. What type of air mass is born in high-latitude regions?
polar air mass
290. Poetry
Who wrote these lines? An' little Orphant Annie says, when the blaze is blue, An’ the lampwick sputters, an’ the wind goes WO00-00.
James Whitcomb Riley
291. Evolution
This is a sequence illustrating the evolution of what mammal? Hyracotherium, Mesohippus, Merychippus, Pliohippus, Equus caballus
horse
292. Mark Twain
Mark Twain's first attempt at historical fiction was a story about Tom Canty who was a pauper, and another identical boy who was a what?
prince
293. Kansas History
What movement of the 1880s led to Kansas becoming the first state to constitutionally prohibit all alcoholic beverages?
temperance movement
294. Operas
What opera includes an aria with these words? Toreador - en garde! Toreador! Toreador!
Carmen
295. Monuments
Located about fifty miles from the South Dakota border, what national monument in Wyoming was established by Theodore Roosevelt in 1906?
Devils Tower
296. Insects
A grasshopper's body is divided into three main sections. Its wings are attached to which of these?
thorax
297. Geologic Time
If the Mesozoic Era began 225 million years ago and lasted 160 million years, when did the Cenozoic Era begin?
65 million years ago
298. Monuments
Cleopatra's Needle in New York's Central Park is what kind of architectural structure?
obelisk
299. Prohibition
What league spearheaded the prohibition movement during the Progressive Era?
Anti-Saloon League
300. Award Analogies
Broadway is to Tony as Hollywood is to ...
Oscar
301. Displacement
If an object floats on water, it displaces water equal to its mass, but if the object sinks, it displaces water equal to its ...
volume
302. Alien Games
The ratio of Martians to Venusians at an interplanetary Frisbee championship was 9 to 2. There were 14 Venusians at this event. How many Martians were there?
63
303. Metamorphic Rock
If metamorphic rock is subjected to such intense heat and pressure that it melts, it becomes what kind of rock?
igneous
304. Zoology
These are breeds of what kind of animals? Duroc, Berkshire, Tamworth, Mulefoot, American Yorkshire, Essex, Saddleback, Vietnamese Potbelly
pigs (hogs, swine)
305. Colonial Settlements
In 1620, the Virginia Company of Plymouth had failed to establish permanent colonies in the northern reaches of what was then known as Virginia while a settlement at Jamestown has been successfully established by the Virginia Company of what city?
London
306. Disorder in the Court
In court one day, Mabel Mudslinger was on the witness stand when she called the judge a 'senile old porcupine' just before she threw her combat boots at the bailiff and made noises with her hand in her armpit. She could be cited for what offense?
contempt
307. Energy
In 1978, the Princeton Large Torus test reactor reached a temperature of 60 million degrees F and held it briefly. This feat fueled the enthusiasm of scientists trying to develop what kind of energy?
fusion
308. Surnames
Many surnames were originally linked to a profession, such as Cooper to a barrel maker, Chandler to a maker of candles, and Thatcher to a roofer. What surname was originally linked to a maker of arrows?
Fletcher
309. Planet Geology
On Mars, what kind of physical feature is Olympus Mons?
volcano (mountain)
310.
While endoparasites live inside their hosts, what kind of parasites live on the surface of their hosts?
ectoparasites
311. Etymology
During the 19th century, the British prohibited slavery in India, the killing of infant girls, and the ritual suicide of widows. They also suppressed thuggee, a cult that required members to commit ritual murder and robbery. What modern word is based on that cult?
thug
312. Tissues
What connective tissue is found in the rib cage, the nose, the ear, the ankle, the bronchial tubes, and the intervertebral discs?
cartilage
313. The Ancient Mideast
The name, Mesopotamia, literally indicates a land between two what?
rivers
314. Poems
This is from what poem by Lewis Carroll? 'Will you walk a little faster?' said a whiting to a snail, 'There's a porpoise close behind us, and he's treading on my tail.'
Lobster Quadrille
315. Parodies
This is from a parody of what poem? Half a loaf, half a loaf, Half a loaf onward. All in the belly at once, Toasted and buttered. 'Downward the raisin bread, Charge past the gums!' she said. Into the belly, the crunch Echoed and sputtered.
The Charge of the Light Brigade
316. Landforms
Similar to silty water entering a lake, when a lava flow enters a standing body of water, it creates a landform called a lava what?
delta
317. Passionate Lines
What character from English literature says this in a moment of despair? Eyes, look your last! Arms, take your last embrace! And lips, O you the doors of breath, seal with a righteous kiss a dateless bargain to engrossing death.
Romeo
318. Money
In cents, what is the value of six bits?
$.75
319. Ear Anatomy
Name the region of the ear between the eardrum and the cochlea.
middle ear
320. 18th-Century Revolutionaries
Which Haitian revolutionary and statesman has a name that literally means 'the opening'?
Toussaint L'Ouverture
321.
The Bataan Peninsula, the site of a major American defeat during the Second World War, is in what country?
Philippines
322. Autoantonyms
What word missing from this autoantonym statement can mean 'things are going to get worse' or 'things are going to get better'? It's all ---- from here.
downhill
323. Architects
What English architect is credited with effectively shaping London's skyline and designing many of the city's most famous landmarks?
Christopher Wren
324. Archaeology
These sites are nearest to what river? Temple of Luxor Valley of the Kings Temple of Karnak
Nile
325. Trilogies
The three parts of this trilogy included 'The Trees,' 'The Fields,' and 'The Town.' The title of this work by Conrad Richter was 'The Awakening ...'
Land
326. Plants Not for Your Garden
Its sawtoothed leaves contain hairs that secrete a fluid which irritates the skin on contact. This North American plant is stinging what?
nettle
327. Political Figures
Two major American political figures were willing to place their prestige at risk by attending the Constitutional Convention. One of these was George Washington of Virginia. The other from Pennsylvania was ...
Benjamin Franklin
328. Squares
Algebraically represent the side of a square with an area of 9(x squared) - 30x + 25 square feet.
3x - 5 feet
329. Canada
In 1882, Canada created what district and future province and founded the town of Regina within it?
Saskatchewan
330. Distillation
Name both phase changes involved in distillation.
evaporation, condensation
331. Early Colonies
Name England's first overseas colony in the New World.
Newfoundland
332. Curves
Although the Gateway Arch in St. Louis looks something like a parabola, it is actually what other type of curve illustrated by a chain hanging from two points?
catenary
333. Scientific Constants
As used in Einstein's famed equation, what is the scientific symbol for the velocity of light in a
vacuum?
334. Science History
What Dutchman was first to record these kinds of observations? In the water were many little animalcules, whereof some were roundish, while others, a bit bigger, consisted of an oval. On these last, I saw two little legs near the head and two little fins at the hindmost end.
Anton van Leeuwenhoek
335. Fossil Math
About 250,000 fossil species have been discovered. Paleontologists believe this figure represents perhaps 1/20,000 of all the species that ever existed. If that estimate is correct, about how many species have there been on Earth?
5 billion
336. Coral
To the east of what islands lies the only living coral reef in the continental United States?
Florida Keys
337. Distillates
A distillate is the condensed liquid obtained as a result of what process?
distillation
338. Arabia
In the seventh century, two classes existed in Arabia. The house-dwellers were found only near the coasts. The other class, whose name now indicates pastoral nomads, were called what?
Bedouins
339. Operas
What opera by Richard Wagner is about one of the knights of the Round Table?
Parsifal
340. Australian Wildlife
What Australian marsupial looks very much like a kangaroo but is generally much smaller?
wallaby
341. Cyclic Growth
People grow by about .3 inch every night when asleep, but shrink to their former heights the following day. What comprises the discs between vertebrae that are compressed by gravity when people stand or sit?
cartilage
342. Legal Groups
Name the U.S. legal defense association that provided the defense counsel in the Sacco and Vanzetti affair and in the Scopes trial.
ACLU (American Civil Liberties Union)
343. Animal Behavior
Hibernation is a long winter sleep but some animals such as opossums and skunks enter into a light winter sleep from which they may rouse on warm days to hunt food. This light sleep is called ...
dormancy
344. Leaves
When a leaf blade is divided into two or more parts, the leaf is compound. If the leaf consists of a single blade, although the edge may be indented in various ways, the leaf is described as being what?
simple
345. Consecutive Integers
What is the smaller of two consecutive integers if their sum is 137?
68
346. Patriotic Songs
What American patriotic song includes these words in its lyrics? altar, gospel, vintage, sword, lamps, trumpet
Battle Hymn of the Republic
347. Musicals
These are songs from what musical? Buenos Aires On This Night of a Thousand Stars The Lady's Got Potential Peron's Latest Flame Don't Cry for Me, Argentina
Evita
348. Mineral Resources
Name the black, potato-sized lumps on the sea floor in the central Pacific that contain about 25% manganese, 15% iron, 2% nickel, 2% copper, and smaller amounts of cobalt.
manganese nodules
349. Weight Problems
A jar contains 10,000 lead shot averaging 0.2216 grams each. What is the total weight of the shot?
2216 grams
350. Canine Stories
Asta is a dog that belongs to what pair of detectives created by Dashiell Hammett?
Nick, Nora Charles
351. Slogans
What is the last name of the 19th-century presidential candidate who was promoted with this slogan? Grandfather's hat fits Ben.
Harrison
352. Disorders
What visual disorder is indicated when someone cannot distinguish between a red delicious and a Granny Smith apple or a red versus green traffic light?
color blindness
353. Pressure
Who discovered the principle that if the speed at which a gas or liquid flows across a surface is increased then the pressure which it exerts on that surface will decrease?
Daniel Bernoulli
354. Discharge
A stream with an average velocity of .5 feet per second and a cross-sectional area of 20 square feet has a discharge of how many cubic feet per second?
10
355. 2
Alpenglow, a rosy glow on a mountain peak, occurs just after sunset or just before what part of the day?
sunrise
356. Mountain Ranges
What mountain range divides Siberia from Europe?
Ural Mountains
357. The Confederacy
Many Southerners believed that what agricultural product was of such importance to Britain that it would guarantee the South's success if it seceded from the United States?
cotton
358. The District of Columbia
Name the hill in Washington D.C. where you will find the building in which the House of Representatives and the Senate meet.
Capitol Hill
359. Algebraic Multiplication
Multiply (2x + 3) by (4x + 5).
8(x squared) + 22x + 15
360. Asian Nations
Name either country that occupies the peninsula between the Yellow Sea and the Sea of Japan.
North (South) Korea
361. Trenches
The deepest oceanic trenches are in which ocean?
Pacific
362. Diseases
The infectious disease tularemia is associated with what small mammals?
rabbits
363. Matter
What common characteristic of a sample of matter is determined by multiplying its length times its width times its height?
volume
364. Lines of Longitude
A longitude of 30 degrees west runs through what ocean?
Atlantic
365. Evaporation
The three key factors that determine the rate of evaporation are temperature, humidity, and what else?
air movement (wind, air flow rate, etc.)
366. Musicians
In 1792, Goethe was publishing studies in the science of optics, Haydn was at the height of his fame, and the body of what composer was lying in an unmarked pauper's grave in a Vienna cemetery?
Wolfgang Mozart
367. Snakebite
If you come across a snakebite victim without two puncture wounds at the site of the bite, you know the snake was not from what snake family?
viper (pit viper, Viperidae)
368. Law Enforcement
They were originally paid $1.25 per day, provided their own horses and arms, and patrolled vast territories to enforce the law and protect Texans against Indian and Mexican raiders. Name this group.
Texas Rangers
369. Computers
What acronym for a device used in transmitting data is derived from 'modulator' and 'demodulator'?
modem
370. Legal Vocabulary
What legal term rhyming with 'infest' means 'to bear witness or certify'?
attest
371. Ancient Rome
Who is the hero of a lengthy poem by Virgil about the beginnings of the Roman Empire?
Aeneas
372. The Skull
The bony cavity of the skull that contains and protects the eyeball is an ...
orbit
373. Transportation Nicknames
Synonymous with 'large trench,' what was the nickname of the Erie Canal?
Big Ditch
374. Archaeology
An archeological project is called a ...
dig
375. Compounds
Name the chemical compound of protein and iron that transports oxygen through the body.
hemoglobin
376. Small Mammals
After rodents, what is the second largest group of mammals composed of over 1200 different species?
bats
377. Forests
What kind of forest in northern Eurasia and North America consists of evergreen cone-bearing trees?
coniferous forest
378. Geology
A cylindrical mass removed by drilling into the earth to determine the composition of the rock below is what kind of sample?
core sample
379. Asian Archipelagoes
The Dutch took over the Moluccas in the 17th century, and used them as the basis for their monopoly of the spice trade. Before they were called the Moluccas, they were appropriately known as the ...
Spice Islands
380. Participles
What is the present participle of the verb whose past participle is 'shaken'?
shaking
381. Medical Exams
What medical professionals are most likely to read bitewing x-rays?
dentists
382. Algebraic Expressions
Name the constant(s) in this expression.
ay + 14 - (xz/y) = pq
383. Theater
The sunken area in front of a stage where the orchestra sits during ballets, operas, and musicals is called the ...
pit
384. Volcanoes
If you alphabetically arrange the names of U.S. states with active volcanoes, which one is first?
Alaska
385. Posters
On the Army recruitment poster widely distributed in 1917, who is depicted as saying 'I Want You'?
Uncle Sam
386. Prefixes
What is the meaning of the prefix in words such as foretell and forestall?
before (earlier, in front of)
387. Songs
What month is indicated in the song that begins, 'While strolling through the park one day'?
May
388. Significant Inventors
The spinning jenny was a major contribution during the Industrial Revolution. In what country was it invented?
England (Great Britain)
389. Sentence Objects
What is the indirect object in this line? The herpetologist fed his snakes mice.
snakes
390. Museums
The Holocaust Memorial Museum opened in 1993 in what city?
Washington, D.C.
391. Legendary Ladies
The Lady Marian Fitzwalter was a friend of what legendary character who lived in Sherwood Forest?
Robin Hood
392. Raids
A helicopter raid by commandos in 1980 to retrieve American hostages in what country not only failed but resulted in the deaths of eight Marines?
Iran
393. Cliches
Complete this line from 'The 13 Clocks' by James Thurber. The fat is in the fire, the die is cast, the jig is up, the goose is cooked, and the cat is ...
out of the bag
394. Frameups
What character in 'Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban' framed Sirius Black for the murder of thirteen people, including Harry's parents?
Peter Pettigrew
395. Scientific Professionals
What kind of scientist is particularly intrigued by these kinds of questions? Who were the ancestors of Homo sapiens? What are the behavioral, social, and cultural traits of different groups of people?
anthropologist
396. Colonization Failures
In 1590, the first relief expedition reached Roanoke Island but found no trace of the settlement. Thereafter, what name was given to that colony?
Lost Colony
397. Bird Vocabulary
What is a row of crows called?
a murder
398. Poisonous Creatures
Its venom contains neurotoxins, hemolysins, and cardiac toxins. Name this arachnid that can inflict a dangerous and sometimes fatal sting by means of its erectile tail equipped with a stinger.
scorpion
399. Legends
According to legend, William Tell's defiance of Hermann Gessler sparked the revolution that led to the independence of what country?
Switzerland
400. Diseased Defenders
The 'disease of a peculiar nature' that was probably pneumonia or typhoid pneumonia or advanced tuberculosis afflicted which of the commanders at the Alamo?
Jim Bowie
401. Memorial Poems
This verse is from a poem about what U.S. national memorial? Black granite stretches its harsh, tapering wings up to pedestrian-level grass but sucks me down, here, at the intersection of names. I forgive, I must, though I wish something could heal this wound in the earth.
Vietnam Veterans Memorial
402. Weight
You would weigh the least if you stepped on bathroom scales on which of the inner planets?
Mercury
403. Asia
Seven nations are said to comprise Southeast Asia. Which is missing from the list? Cambodia Indonesia Vietnam Malaysia Singapore Thailand
Laos
404. Energy
What kind of potential energy increases as height increases?
gravitational
405. Revivals
The religious revivalist movement that swept through the American colonies from the 1730s to the 1750s was called the Great ...
Awakening
406. Cells
Cells having particular functions in a multicellular organism are described as being ...
specialized
407. Native American Milestones
After years of guerrilla warfare in Arizona and New Mexico, the surrender of what Apache chief effectively terminated Indian-white strife in the Southwest?
Geronimo
408. Astronomy
Extragalactic indicates a region outside what galaxy?
Milky Way
409. Europe
What major subdivision of Europe is bordered by the Barents, Baltic, Adriatic, Aegean, Black, and Caspian seas?
Eastern Europe
410. Ancient Infrastructure
What ancient European civilization had built over 52,000 miles of roads before 1 A.D.?
Rome
411. Sharks
Sharks developed during the Devonian period, a geological time also known as the age of ...
fishes
412. The Sun
What envelope encircling the Sun is hotter by a factor of nearly 200 than that star's surface?
corona
413.
The monsoon wind pattern that brings seasonally heavy rain to southern Asia is believed to have started some 12 million years ago with the uplift of what mountain range?
Himalayas
414. Astronomical Poetry
What is the 'cinder' in this verse by C.S. Lewis? Thus easily can Earth digest A cinder of sidereal fire, And make her translunary guest The native of an English shire.
meteorite
415. Body Systems
Name the largest organs in the pulmonary system.
lungs
416. Battle Cries
In the French Revolution, what was the first word in the battle cry that ended with these words? Equality - Fraternity
Liberty
417. Song Lyrics
This is a line from what song? Way down upon de Swanee river ...
Old Folks at Home
418. Nonfiction
Who wrote this? Above our camp was a great steep bulge of snow and, as my feet were still cold, I waved Tenzing on to take the lead. Surging on with impressive strength, he ploughed a knee-deep track upward. We reached the top of the bulge at 28,000 feet.
Edmund Hillary
419. Telescopes
What category of optical telescopes are used at Kitt Peak National Observatory, the Mauna Kea Observatory, and the Palomar Observatory?
reflecting telescopes
420. Marine Biology
The echinoderms include sea cucumbers, sea urchins, sand dollars, sea lilies, and what other life form characterized by radial symmetry?
starfish
421. Assassination Explanation
Who wrote this in 1865? Our country owes all our troubles to Lincoln. God has made me the instrument of his punishment.
John Wilkes Booth
422. Pirate Crews
What was the name for those sailors who mopped the decks of pirate ships?
swabbies (swabs)
423. Discount Problems
You have a $1000 platinum auk statue for sale. How much less will you make if you sell it for an 80% discount in comparison to a 60% discount followed by another 20% discount?
$120
424. Sunburn
Prolonged exposure to what type of radiation from the Sun will cause sunburn?
ultraviolet radiation
425. Refrains
What verb phrase is in the refrain in the various verses of the 'Battle Hymn of the Republic'?
is marching on (is marching)
426. Zoology
What type of animal is a skink?
lizard (or reptile)
427. Properties of Matter
Mass, length, and volume are extensive properties. What kind of properties are temperature and melting point?
intensive
428. Poem Pieces
These lines are all from what Robert Frost poem? What good is he? He's worn out. He's asleep beside the stove. He just kept nodding off. He meant to clear the upper pasture. 'Dead,' was all he answered.
The Death of the Hired Man
429. Executive Powers
What presidential power did George Washington exercise in relation to those involved in the Whiskey Rebellion and Jimmy Carter use in relation to those who dodged the draft during the Vietnam War?
pardon
430. Outlaws
He was a leader in the Lincoln County cattle war of New Mexico. Name this desperado whose career of cattle rustling brought his score of murders to 21 before he was killed by the sheriff.
Billy the Kid
431. Federal Agencies
What government commission monitors national elections and provides matching funds to qualifying presidential candidates?
Federal Election Commission
432. Physics
Which states of matter are fluids?
liquid, gas
433. Kepler
Johannes Kepler finally discarded one of the most cherished principles of ancient astronomy - that the heavenly bodies must move in circles. He concluded that the orbit of Mars is not a circle but instead, has what other shape?
ellipse
434. Quartets
A string quartet consists of two violins and what two other instruments?
viola, cello
435. Vision
Directly behind the iris is what elastic, transparent structure?
lens
436. Probability
In a bag are 5 purple and 4 green baubles. You randomly grab one, and then put it back into the bag before randomly drawing out another. What is the probability that both baubles grabbed are purple?
25/81
437. U
What legislative body resolved 'that the flag of the thirteen United States be thirteen stripes which alternate red and white and that the union be thirteen stars - white in a blue field representing a new constellation'?
Continental Congress
438. Flowering
What adjective indicates plants with flowers that open at night?
nocturnal
439.
The pituitary gland is at the base of what organ?
brain
440. Birds
They stand five feet high, taller than any other North American bird. With brilliant red faces, white plumage and a shrill, trumpeting cry, they are conspicuous in coastal Texas, stalking on their stilt legs. Name these endangered birds.
whooping cranes
441. Marsupials
Kangaroos live only in Australia, Tasmania, and on what major island to their north?
New Guinea
442. Optics
What common optical device forms an optical image by reflection?
mirror
443. Ancient Geography
The ancient Greeks generally believed the world consisted of what three continents?
Asia, Europe, Africa
444. Lines
What is the equation for a line which is the locus of a point whose ordinate exceeds its abscissa by 12?
y=xt+12
445. Territories
The State of Deseret, established in 1849, only lasted about a year until it became known as what territory?
Territory of Utah
446. Art Forms
Originally, this term indicated a formal, religious panel-painting or mosaic. Today, in the computer industry, it refers to any stylized or symbolic image. What is it?
icon
447. Paleontological Fantasy
These lines are from what novel? -Life will find a way. -You know, at times like this, one feels, well, perhaps extinct animals should be left extinct.
Jurassic Park
448. Galaxies
The three major types of galaxies include the irregular, elliptical, and what else?
spiral
449. Wind-chill
If you blow on your hand, it usually feels cool even though your breath is warm. But if you blow on your hand in a sauna, it may feel very hot. This is because the air right next to your skin is usually still and provides some insulation. Name this layer of air directly adjacent to a surface.
boundary layer
450. Massacres
In 1937, the dictator of the Dominican Republic, Rafael Trujillo, ordered the execution of more than 20,000 people who came from what adjacent country?
Haiti
451. Immortality
Alfred Lord Tennyson's poem, 'Tithonus,' is about a Trojan who is granted immortality, which turns out to be not so terrific after all. What fantasy by Natalie Babbit also explores some problems of eternal life?
Tuck Everlasting
452. State Geography
What state includes the Klamath Mountains, the Rogue Valley, and the Willamette Valley?
Oregon
453. Amethyst
Amethyst is a purple gem variety of what mineral composed of silica?
quartz (corundum)
454. The Skeletal System
What bone comprised of four fused vertebrae is at the apex of the sacrum?
coccyx
455. Equations
Solve this equation for x.
6-x-3x = 30
456. Italian History
King Victor Emmanuel III allowed whom to become dictator of Italy in 1922?
Benito Mussolini
457. Pronoun Usage
How is the reflexive pronoun used in this line? She made herself an anchovy sandwich.
indirect object
458. Sentence Types
Classify this interrogative sentence by A.A. Milne according to its structure. Did you ever stop to think and forget to start again?
compound
459. Physiological Responses
Name the immune response by the body against some of its own tissues and cells.
autoimmunity
460. Exports
Identify the major textile exported from Australia.
wool
461. Adjectives
What degree of comparison is used by the adjective in Dr. Seuss quote? You know you're in love when you can't fall asleep because reality is finally better than your dreams.
comparative
462. Art Forms
What term refers to the art of shaping and firing clay?
ceramics
463. Energy
Which category of energy is illustrated by water flowing through a turbine, a spinning top, or a rolling bowling ball?
kinetic
464. Agricultural Equipment
The combine, which automatically harvests, and threshes grain, replaced what invention of Cyrus McCormick?
reaper
465. Geometric Instruments
Name the instrument used in geometry for drawing circles.
compass
466. Deserts
These towns are in what desert? Amboy Yermo Barstow Needles
Mojave Desert
467. Agricultural Labor
What adjective indicates largely unskilled agricultural workers who move with the season, planting and harvesting crops?
migrant
468. Seeking Solutions
What method of problem solving is illustrated when you keep trying different potential solutions until you find one that works?
trial-and-error
469. Electricity
A coulomb is to charge and a volt is to potential difference as what is to current?
ampere (amp)
470. 19th-Century Celebrations
The name of what railroad completes this passage? The largest celebration took place at Promontory, Utah, and the last spikes were driven by Leland Stanford of the Central Pacific and Thomas Durant of the ...
Union Pacific
471. State Nicknames
Quaker State is the nickname for what American state?
Pennsylvania
472. Etymology
These words were borrowed from what language? knapsack, snorkel, frankfurter
German
473. Muscle
What kind of muscle is involuntary and unstriated?
smooth muscle
474. Horror Stories
At the end of what scary story by Edgar Allan Poe do two family members fall dead as their ancestral mansion splits and sinks into a lake?
The Fall of the House of Usher
475. Revolutionary War Engagements
What battle that occurred at the end of 1776 resulted in the capture of an entire Hessian garrison in New Jersey and significantly boosted the Continental Army's flagging morale?
Battle of Trenton
476. Floods
What kind of flood may immediately follow the failure of a dam, a sudden thunderstorm, or the thaw of an ice dam?
flash flood
477. Classical Music
'Symphony No. 41 in C Major' by Wolfgang Mozart has what nickname reminiscent of the fifth planet from the Sun?
Jupiter
478. Murders
In 1940, a Spaniard calling himself Frank Jackson murdered what exiled former Soviet leader in Mexico?
Leon Trotsky
479. Fossils
Most fossils of Tyrannosaurus rex have been found in what USS. state?
Montana
480. Flags
The only two symbols on the banner of the Bear Flag Republic were, of course, a bear, and what else?
a star
481. Science History
What woman discovered that thorium, polonium, and radium are radioactive?
Marie Curie
482. Islands
Sri Lanka is south of what Asian country?
India
483. Minerals
What metallic mineral occurs both uncombined and in combination with other elements in minerals such as enargite, chalcocite, bornite, and chalcopyrite?
copper
484. The Cabinet
Which cabinet officer advises the president on the welfare of wage earners in the U.S.?
secretary of labor
485. Exponents Galore
What is the sum of 3 raised to the fourth power and 7 raised to the third power?
424
486. 3
What kind of energy do photoautotrophic organisms use to manufacture food?
light (electromagnetic)
487. Temperature
That temperature at which the kinetic energy of atoms and molecules is at a minimum is called ...
absolute zero
488. Optimists
The fictional Pollyanna Whittier, an exceedingly optimistic orphan, likes to play what game in which she attempts to find happy aspects in any situation?
Glad Game
489. 4
Originally, James Cook called it Stingray Bay because of the abundance of those fish there. But then, because of the tremendous variety of plants found in the region, he soon changed the name to what?
Botany Bay
490. Old West Professions
Cowboys skilled in taming wild horses were known as bronco what?
busters
491. Cloud Composition
What composes cirrus and cirrostratus clouds?
ice crystals (ice)
492. Ornithology
These are characteristics of what birds? -They breed in colonies on islands and rocky cliffs of the North Atlantic and Pacific. -Their nests are in holes they dig in the earth. -They fly close to the surface of the water. -They can use their wings to fly underwater in pursuit of small fish.
puffins
493. Rock
Displaying a well-developed conchoidal fracture, it is an excellent material for arrowheads and knives. Name this volcanic glass of rhyolitic composition formed by rapid cooling of a viscous lava.
obsidian
494. Plants
Name the general group of plants characterized by parallel venation.
monocots (monocotyledons)
495. Winds
In which cardinal direction does the winter monsoon of southern Asia generally blow?
south
496. Special Maps
What is depicted on a special map that shows thousands of dots along Western South America, the Aleutian Islands, northern New Guinea, and the Japanese Islands?
earthquakes
497. Sequences
In a mathematical sequence, when the value of any term is less than the value of the preceding term, the sequence is in what order?
descending order
498. Musical Geography
These styles of music are associated with the region around what sea? rumba, bomba, reggae, salsa, mambo
Caribbean
499. Pronouns Galore
What is the only objective pronoun in this convoluted passage? I recall when we were in their bus that our fuel pump blew up just before the avalanche fell on us burying our vehicle for nine hours.
us
500. Algebraic Proportions
What is the absolute value of y in this proportion?
3/y = y/12
501. Inequalities
Solve this inequality. -3p plus 4 is less than -8
p is greater than 4
502. Punishment
What is the term for a prison for those convicted of major crimes?
penitentiary
503. Waves
What is another name for mechanical longitudinal waves?
compression (compressional) waves
504. Light
What kind of light bulb produces light by heating a filament until it glows?
incandescent light bulb
505. Colors
What color is lake?
red (reddish)
506. Otters
Otters mostly eat what?
fish (or shellfish)
507. Appointments
What U.S. president made the greatest number of appointments to the U.S. Supreme Court?
George Washington
508. Adaptations
Some arthropods are able to blend into the background through what kind of coloration?
protective
509. Elements
The periodic table is arranged in vertical columns called groups and horizontal rows called ...
periods
510. Lake States
Name the westernmost state that borders Lake Erie.
Michigan
511. State Fossils
The state fossil of Colorado is what herbivorous dinosaur with long hind legs, a relatively short neck, and a distinctive double row of upright bony plates along the back?
stegosaurus
512. Disjunctions
What is the most famous disjunction in Hamlet's soliloquy?
To be or not to be
513. Mideast History
Born in the Ukraine, she emigrated to the U.S. in 1906 and then to Israel in 1921. Name this founder of Israel and prime minister during the Arab-Israeli war of 1973.
Golda Meir
514. Tropes
What literary device attributes living characteristics to inanimate objects?
personification (anthropomorphism)
515. Representatives
In the 109th Congress, California had 53 members in the House of Representatives. This is how many times more than the number of representatives in the House from Montana?
53
516.
What stage of mitosis is indicated by this passage? The centromeres divide, and the attached spindle fibers progressively shorten, pulling the chromatids apart.
anaphase
517. British Legends
In 'The Merry Adventures of Robin Hood,' what king ultimately pardons Robin and his men?
Richard | (the Lionheart, the Lion-Hearted)
518. Algebra
33 is added to seven times a number. The result is 68.
What is the number?
519. Enormous Storms
On what planet has a Herculean hurricane been raging for at least the last 300 years?
Jupiter
520. City Analogies
Rotterdam is to the Netherlands as Antwerp is to what country?
Belgium
521. Parts of Books
What is the term for the main body of a printed work, as distinct from a preface or footnotes or an appendix?
text
522. Herculean Labors
Hercules killed what creature in the valley of Nemea?
lion
523. Evolutionary Adaptations
Name the first vertebrates completely adapted for life on land.
reptiles
524. Deep Sea Diving Dangers
Divers who breathe compressed air for extended periods while submerged at great depth will saturate their body tissues with what dissolved gas?
nitrogen
525. Propaganda
A movie production company puts four positive reviews on its new video, but doesn't mention the other ninety negative reviews. This illustrates what form of propaganda?
card stacking
526. Anthologies
Whose collection of short stories is entitled, 'Night Shift'?
Stephen King's
527. 3
Of the three broad classifications of meteorites, which applies to highly metallic ones?
iron meteorites (siderites)
528. Philosophical Tragedy
Complete this thought by Plato. We can easily forgive a child who is afraid of the dark, but the real tragedy of life is when men are afraid of the ...
light
529. Hearst
William Randolph Hearst used all his resources and influence in an unsuccessful attempt to prevent the release of what film that was loosely based on his life?
Citizen Kane
530. Home States
These people all lived in what state? Alvin York Lester Flatt David Farragut Dolly Parton Al Gore Davy Crockett
Tennessee
531. City Nicknames
A nickname for what California city resulted from this quote by Oscar Levant? Strip the phony tinsel off ---- and you'll find the real tinsel underneath.
Hollywood
532. Technology
A new form of TV appeared in the 1990s called HDTV. What does 'HD' stand for?
high definition
533. The Stock Market
A bull market is to optimism as a bear market is to what?
pessimism
534. British History
Before the Revolutionary War, the British sent many of its convicts to America. After the loss of the colonies, they subsequently began sending prisoners to what bay in Australia?
Botany Bay
535. Trilogies
In what trilogy are these creatures found? Stybba, Snowmane, Strider, Swish-Tail
Lord of the Rings
536. Elections
In 1968, what former Alabama governor carried five Southern states with forty-five combined electoral votes as the candidate of the American Independent Party?
George Wallace
537. Antidotes
The universal antidote is a mixture of magnesium oxide, tannic acid, water, and what activated substance?
charcoal
538. Duels
Who fatally wounded Alexander Hamilton?
Aaron Burr
539. Sentence Combos
Combine these two sentences into a single sentence using an adverb clause. Jo had been miserable. She had hope.
Although Jo had been miserable, she had hope.
540. Blended Words
What term for a periodic celestial source of electromagnetic radiation is a blend of 'quasar' and 'pulse'?
pulsar
541. Minerals
Minerals cannot be in which two phases of matter?
liquids, gases
542. Triangles
Every angle in an acute triangle measures less than how many degrees?
90
543. Great Debates
In the Webster-Hayne debate of 1830, Robert Hayne championed what concept that a state had the right to refuse recognition or enforcement of federal laws?
nullification
544. Gas Consumption
Nadine travels 100 miles and burns gas at the rate of 15 miles per gallon. With the same quantity of gas, how far could she go if she only got 12 miles per gallon?
80 miles
545. Classes of Organisms
What class of consumers can reduce a dead organism down to its minerals, carbon dioxide, and water?
decomposers
546. Case
What is the grammatical case of the pronoun in this line? Instead of modernizing the old destroyer, the brass decided to use her for target practice.
objective
547. Metals
What is the most common heavy metal that is malleable but not ductile?
lead
548. Parodied Proverbs
This is a parody of a proverb that normally ends with what three words? If at first you DO succeed, try not to look astonished!
try try again
549. Mountaineers
On what mountain was the body of George Leigh Mallory found in 1999, seventy-five years after he had disappeared?
Mt. Everest
550. Expressive Language
What figure of speech is used when a person says that his business was 'not too successful' instead of stating that it was a dismal failure?
euphemism
551. Peak Places
The tallest mountain in the lower 48 states is located in what national park named for a kind of tree?
Sequoia National Park
552. American Parks
In what national park are these visible? Shinomo quartzite Tapeats sandstone Bright Angel shale redwall limestone Coconino sandstone Kaibab limestone
Grand Canyon
553. Brewery Microorganisms
Some organisms release energy from glucose without oxygen. This process used in breweries is called ...
fermentation
554. Roman Measures
In ancient Rome, one cubit equaled 17.5 inches. To the nearest cubit, how many cubits were there in one stadium, given that a stadium equaled 202 yards?
416
555. Family Literature
How many children are in the family in the book by Frank Gilbreth and Ernestine Gilbreth Carey?
12 (Cheaper by the Dozen)
556. Humidity
What happens to the relative humidity if the amount of water vapor in the air remains the same and the temperature rises?
The relative humidity decreases.
557. Related Words
What same three letters end the nouns with these definitions? -a slaughter -respect -a property lien -a wise man -trash -bravery
-age
558. Prepositions
What preposition is in the first, second, and third lines of the song, 'America'?
of
559. Political Slang
The phrase 'red state' has come to indicate those U.S. state that predominately vote for candidates of what party?
Republican
560. Seawater
How does the buoyancy of water in the Dead Sea compare to that of water in the Mediterranean?
It is more buoyant.
561. Blisters
What is the common name for blisters that contain a great number of erythrocytes?
blood blisters
562. Technology
The use of machines rather than people to perform tasks is called ...
automation
563. French Novels
What scientist is the protagonist and narrator of 'Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea'?
Professor Pierre Aronnax
564. Scientific Pursuits
What term for a field of science literally means 'ancient geography'?
paleogeography
565. Atmospheric Circulation
In which hemisphere is cyclonic circulation in a clockwise direction?
Southern Hemisphere
566. Stair Problems
It takes you thirty seconds to walk up the stairs from the first floor of a building to its third floor. How many seconds will it take you to walk from the first floor to the sixth floor?
75
567. Nicknames
What is a nickname for Australians?
Aussie (Digger)
568. Latin Roots
What is the meaning of the root word in denomination, nominative, nomenclature, and nominal?
name
569. Metonyms
Capitol Hill is a metonym for what part of the U.S. government?
Congress (legislative branch)
570. European Regions
Name the fashionable resort region between the Alps and the Mediterranean extending from southeast France to northwest Italy.
Riviera
571. 4
The head of a giant mutant rat from Chernobyl makes up 25% of its weight while its tail comprises 12.5%. If the rest of this rat weighs 20 pounds, what is the total weight of this creature?
32 pounds
572. Rhetoric
What figure of speech was used by John Milton in this excerpt? Fixed fate, free will, foreknowledge absolute
alliteration
573. Taxation
What kind of taxes are paid annually in most communities on all buildings and land?
property taxes
574. Presidents
Gerald Ford was the 38th president. What ordinal number corresponds to the presidency of John Kennedy?
35th
575. Paltry Wage Math
Soldiers in Libya earn $152 per month. How much do they earn in one year?
$1824
576. Mechanics
In relation to mechanics, the ratio of the energy or power a machine delivers to the energy or power it receives defines what?
efficiency
577. Decades
This poem refers to what American decade? Remember when hippy meant big in the hips, And a trip involved travel in cars, planes and ships?
1960s
578. Banishments
Because he supported the separation of church and state and held the position that taking land from the Indians without proper payment was unfair, what citizen of the Massachusetts Bay Company ended up establishing a colony that became Rhode Island?
Roger Williams
579. Disasters
In 1906, the Valencia Street Hotel simply slouched down and people in rooms on the fourth floor walked out through their windows on to the street. In what city was this hotel located?
San Francisco
580. Vertigo
Subjective vertigo is the sensation of a person moving around in space. What type of vertigo is the sensation of having objects move about a person?
objective vertigo
581. Pollution
What is the source of anthropogenic pollutants?
man
582. Ocean Floor Geology
What kind of plains are located between the base of the continental rise and abyssal hills?
abyssal plains
583. Square Root
What is the square root of 16(B squared)?
4B
584. Political Authority
Cameroon and Algeria were colonies of France, Mozambique was a colony of Portugal, Cyprus and New Zealand were colonies of Great Britain, and Mauritania was a colony of Germany. The policy of extending a nation's authority by territorial acquisition is called ...
imperialism
585. Parliament
Which branch of the British Parliament includes the nobility?
House of Lords
586. Mineral Changes
As a result of the high temperatures and pressures deep within the Earth's crust, minerals in solid rock can recrystallize and form new minerals. This process is called ...
metamorphism
587. Astronomical Laws
Which of Kepler's laws is also called the harmonic law?
third law
588. Stayin’ Alive
Organisms sometimes evolve the ability to avoid fatal encounters by deceiving predators into treating them as something else. This form of imitation is called defensive ...
mimicry
589. Body Organs
What organ about twenty feet in length is primarily involved in digestion and absorption of food?
small intestine
590. Metals
What is the second most ductile metal?
silver
591. Phrases
What is the first prepositional phrase in the U.S. Air Force song?
into the wild blue yonder
592. Foreign Power Struggles
The stroke of the president of what country in 1989 initiated a power struggle involving Barend du Plessis, Chris Heunis, F.W. de Klerk, and R.F. Botha?
South Africa
593. Adam Smith
Adam Smith said that the three factors of production include capital, land, and ...
labor
594. Processes in Physical Science
What term from physics means either the change of state from a solid to a liquid or the combination of two light nuclei to form a heavier and more stable nucleus?
fusion
595. Botany
The process involving the transportation of pollen from an anther to a stigma is called ...
pollination
596. History of Drama
For which queen did Shakespeare's company first perform in London?
Queen Elizabeth |
597. Fruit Antonyms
In relation to fruits, what is the opposite of a clingstone?
freestone
598. Wounds
The danger of tetanus is significant with what kind of wounds from needles, ice picks, large splinters, or nails?
puncture wounds
599. Radical Change
The Great Proletarian Cultural Revolution, a radical movement in China, ended only with the arrest of the Gang of Four and the death of what Communist leader?
Mao Zedong
600. Bees
The feeding of royal jelly to a bee larva ensures that it will develop into a fertile bee called a what?
queen
601. Football
What football violation is called when the quarterback or punter is hit after passing or kicking the ball?
roughing
602. Anagrams
'Curtailment' is an anagram for 'terminal ...'
cut
603. Central America
Belize City is the capital of what Central American country?
Belize
604. Clauses
Which category of clauses expresses a complete thought?
main (independent) clause
605. Obtuse Triangles
What is the sum of angle a plus angle b plus angle c in an obtuse triangle?
180 degrees
606. Architecture
Jeffersonian architecture was born in the region that became what state?
Virginia
607. Memorials
What is the name for a memorial stone at a grave?
headstone
608. Rivers
What river borders the national park in southwestern Texas?
Rio Grande (Rio Bravo)
609. Numbers
What two-digit number is the square of the sum of its digits?
81
610. Alloys
What category of musical instruments is made from an alloy of copper and zinc?
brass instruments
611. Physicists
Gabriel Fahrenheit is noted for his invention of the Fahrenheit temperature scale and for his use of what poisonous, metallic, liquid element in thermometers?
mercury
612. Museums
In what American museum could you see Apollo 11, Explorer 1, Gemini 7, SpaceShipOne, and Skylab B?
National Air and Space Museum (Smithsonian)
613. Climates
Alluvial fans are usually associated with what type of climate?
arid (semiarid)
614. Chemical Reactions
A well-meaning but uneducated assistant cleans up an automotive shop and crams hundreds of oily rags into a large bin. What type of combustion is likely to occur?
spontaneous combustion
615. Sports Vocabulary
What word in golf indicates a hole-in-one or in tennis, a serve not returned by the opponent?
ace
616. Brunei
What is the main source of income for Brunei?
oil
617. Subatomic Particles
What antiparticle has a negative charge equal in magnitude to the proton's positive charge?
antiproton
618. Astronomy
Heavenly bodies speeding away from Earth at enormous speed appear to take on what color?
red
619. Poetry
According to Edward Lear, what creature went to sea in a pea-green boat with an owl?
pussycat
620. Explorers
Identify the first British captain to sail within the Antarctic Circle.
James Cook
621.
Name the Jules Verne novel that opens with discussions of a mysterious monster gleaming with light that had sunk many vessels.
20,000 Leagues Under the Sea
622. Forms of Art
The great heads on Easter Island, the Sphinx in Egypt, and Michelangelo's 'David' illustrate what art form?
sculpture
623. Supernovae
What type of star remains after a supernova explosion?
neutron star
624. Energy
What kind of energy powered both the Soviet ice-breaker Lenin and the American submarine Nautilus?
nuclear power (atomic energy)
625.
In the 1960s, you could see about 100 feet into the water. By the year 2000, visibility was down to 70 feet. A proliferation of algae resulting from human activities are changing the crystal cobalt blue waters of what lake on the California-Nevada border to green?
Lake Tahoe
626. Music
What short piece of music is analogous to a preface in a literary work?
prelude (or overture)
627. Imperialist Influences
Officially inaugurated as a city in 1931, what European country planned New Delhi to replace Calcutta as the capital of India?
Great Britain (United Kingdom)
628. Africa
It is the shortest distance from Spain to what African country?
Morocco
629. Wartime Weaponry
What devices were developed for Allied troops in World War I as countermeasures to German attacks using phosgene, chlorine gas, and mustard gas?
gas masks
630. Earth's Spheres
Which of Earth's spheres consists of frozen water in the form of snow, permafrost, floating ice, and glaciers?
cryosphere
631.
Water and dissolved minerals enter plants through what structures on roots?
hairs
632. Polygonal Coins
The British 50-pence coin with seven sides is a heptagon and Malta's 50-cent piece with ten sides is a decagon. The Australian 50-cent piece has twelve sides and is a...
dodecagon
633. 3
What free-swimming marine animal consists of a gelatinous umbrella-shaped bell and numerous trailing tentacles?
jellyfish
634. Populist Measures
An important innovation proposed by Populist leaders in the 1890s gave reformers the ability to circumvent their legislatures altogether by submitting legislation directly to the voters in general elections. Name this innovation.
initiative (referendum)
635. State Halls
In what state are these halls of fame? Famous American Indians National Cowboy Hall of Fame
Oklahoma
636. Galaxies
The central concentration of stars and gas at the center of a galaxy is referred to by what term that also designates the central part of an atom or cell?
nucleus
637. French Literature
In what work by Marcel Proust does the protagonist dip a madeleine into a cup of tea and become flooded with the sensations of his childhood?
Remembrance of Things Past
638. Libraries
Plays and novels are in which range of the Dewey Decimal System?
800-899 (the 800s)
639. Nazis
Adolf Eichmann was kidnapped and smuggled from Argentina to Israel by what Israeli spy agency?
Mossad
640. Military History
Created from renegades and fugitives from justice in 1831, what military organization has served largely in North Africa, the Mideast, and Indochina?
Foreign Legion
641. Sprains
In a grade 3 sprain, what kind of tissue in completely ruptured?
ligament
642. Skeletal Substances
Bone is to endoskeleton as chitin is to ...
exoskeleton
643. 1
Reverse faults are one of the two most common types of dip-slip faults. Name the other.
normal faults
644. Great Lake Anagrams
What word can be made from the first letter of the four Great Lakes shared by the U.S. and Canada?
shoe (hose, hoes)
645. Short Stories
'Die Verwandlung' was the original title of what story by Franz Kafka?
The Metamorphosis
646.
Mustapha Mond is one of the ten-member ruling cabal of the futuristic World State created by what author?
Aldous Huxley
647. Atomic Structure
One sample of oxygen atoms has a mass number of 17 while another sample has a mass number of 18. These unusual varieties of oxygen are ...
isotopes
648. First Aid
Name the points where arteries can be held against a bone to reduce arterial bleeding.
pressure points
649. Speeches
What two words complete this line in the Gettysburg Address? Now we are engaged in a great Civil War testing whether that nation or any nation so conceived and so dedicated can ...
long endure
650. Nicknames
Confederate troops from what state became known as the Yellowhammers?
Alabama
651. Births
Mortality is a death rate. What is the corresponding term for a birth rate?
natality
652. Fossils
Fossils that divide geologic time into small units are called guide or ---- fossils.
index
653. Mechanics of Music
Name the sign used in music to change the pitch of a note by raising it one semitone or lowering it by one semitone or canceling the effect of a previous sharp or flat.
accidental
654. Painting
What type of painting requires use of hair brushes and special paper characterized by subtle absorbency and texture?
watercolor
655. Observation
What adjective indicates observation by the eye unassisted by any optical instrument?
naked (naked eye)
656. Court Positions
Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr. said that 'when a nation is at war, many things that might be said in times of peace are such a hindrance to its effort that their utterance will not be endured so long as men fight.' This test for conditions under which freedom of speech may be abridged is called clear and present ...
danger
657. Presidential Decrees
What president formally issued a declaration of manumission?
Abraham Lincoln
658. Polaris
For any observer in the Northern Hemisphere, the altitude in degrees to Polaris is practically the same as the angular distance north of the equator. Name that angular distance.
latitude
659. Inventions
These are inventions of what ancient civilization? astrolabe, catapult, steam engine
Greece
660. Prehistory
The Paleolithic, Mesolithic, and Neolithic periods are subdivisions of what prehistoric age?
Stone Age
661. Parts of Speech
The next-to-the-last word in this quote by Mark Twain is what part of speech? There is no distinctly American criminal class - except Congress.
conjunction
662. Foods
The length of time a food product may be stored and still be safe to eat is called its ...
shelf life
663. National Personification
What is the symbol indicated in this resolution passed in 1961? Resolved by the Senate and the House of Representatives that the Congress salutes Sam Wilson of Troy, New York as the progenitor of America's national symbol.
Uncle Sam
664. Pronouns
Identify either of the syllables that complete all reflexive pronouns.
-self (-selves)
665. Consumer Protection
Groups of consumers who have experienced similar problems may band together and bring what kind of suit against a manufacturer?
class action suit
666. Imaginary Islands
In 'Gulliver's Travels,' Lilliput and Blefuscu are located in what ocean?
Indian Ocean
667. Life on Earth
The age of reptiles began about 248 million years ago and ended 65 million years ago with the extinction of what creatures?
dinosaurs
668. Crustaceans
Edible crustaceans that resemble shrimp but are larger and have different gill structures are called ...
prawns
669. State Fossils
The state fossil of South Dakota is what herbivorous dinosaur with a large horn above either eye, a smaller horn on the nose, and a bony plate covering the neck?
triceratops
670. Legends
What legendary Swiss hero was arrested because he refused to salute the cap that represented the governor in his village?
William Tell
671. Fallacies
'Argumentum ad antiquitatem' is the fallacy of asserting that something is right or good simply because it is ...
old (ancient, antediluvian)
672.
Name Aaron Copland ballet with these sections. Gun Battle The Open Prairie Card Game at Night Street in Frontier Town Celebration After Billy's Capture
Billy the Kid
673. Historical Ages
The Age of Reason is an epithet for what century?
18th
674. Literary Forms
What literary form is illustrated below? Here lies Walter Dudley. He found out too late, Dobermans aren't cuddly.
epitaph
675. Blood
This refers to what bodies in the blood? When they reach the site of a cut, they change shape and stick together.
platelets (thrombocytes)
676. Physics Fundamentals
What did Isaac Newton call 'an innate force of matter, a power of resisting by which every body endeavours to preserve its present state, whether it be of rest or of moving uniformly forward in a straight line'?
inertia
677. The Constitution
Which article of the U.S. Constitution contains the Admissions Clause?
Article IV
678. Syllogisms
What is the conclusion of this syllogism? Mona will not eat anything that smells like feet. Some cheeses really do smell like feet. Therefore, Mona ...
will not eat some cheeses
679. Australians
If there are 21 million people in Australia and the country includes 3 million square miles, how many
people are there per square mile?
680. 2
What is the conclusion of this syllogism? All young actors are poor people. All poor people need new cars. All young actors need new
cars.
681. Angles
An inscribed angle is measured by what fraction of its intercepted arc?
half
682. Tragic Quotes
What fictional character says this? What's ina name? That which we call a rose by any other name would smell as sweet.
Juliet
683. The Medical Profession
What term refers to a doctor serving a training period in a hospital after completing medical school?
intern
684. Organs
What organ of the digestive system is a greenish sac occupying a depression on the underside of the liver?
gallbladder
685. Body Regulation
Name the system of ductless glands that regulates bodily functions by means of hormones secreted into the bloodstream.
endocrine system
686. Book Title Geography
This book is about what region? Trespassers on the Roof of the World
Tibet (Nepal)
687. Historic Sites
Preserving the early history of the American Red Cross, who is celebrated at the national historic site in Maryland which was one of the first dedicated to the accomplishments of a woman?
Clara Barton
688. Music Logarithms
The next C above middle C has a standard frequency of 512 vibrations per second. The next C above has a frequency of how many vibrations per second?
1024
689. Trade
What historical phrase indicates trade among three ports or regions?
triangular trade
690. Precipitation
Identify that form of precipitation resulting from raindrops falling through a cold air layer and freezing.
sleet
691. Short Coasts
Which New England state has a coastline of only 18 miles, the shortest coastline of all ocean states?
New Hampshire
692. Hemorrhage
What is the generally preferred first aid treatment for hemorrhage?
direct pressure
693. Abbreviations
If the abbreviations in this sentence are alphabetized, what does the first one mean? The sec. of the M.D. was asked to make a cc of the c.o.d. invoice from the co. DBA U.S.A. Mfg. for the mdse. costing $2200 ea. ASAP.
as soon as possible
694. Combustion Vocabulary
What word that means a substance can ignite and burn is no longer used on trucks carrying fuels because of its misleading prefix?
inflammable
695. Steamboats
There were two types of paddle wheelers. Those with paddle wheels located on both sides of the vessel were called what?
side-wheelers
696. Wheel Problems
If the diameter of a certain wheel is 2.3 meters, to the nearest tenth, how many meters will it cover in making 20 revolutions?
144.4
697. American Geography
Harney Peak, the highest point east of the Rockies, Custer State Park, and the Crazy Horse Memorial are in what state?
South Dakota
698. Energy
What form of energy is associated with Chalk River, Windscale Pile No. 1, Three Mile Island, and Chernobyl?
nuclear energy
699. Mars
The name of which Martian moon literally means 'panic'?
Deimos
700.
What name for a small jazz band ends with 'o'?
combo
701. Tree History
What coniferous evergreen was discovered in America's Pacific Northwest by Scottish botanist David Douglas?
Douglas fir
702. The Earth's Crust
Which element accounts for 47% of the mass of the Earth's crust?
oxygen
703. Mechanics
A piano stool is an example of what simple machine?
screw
704. Poem Parts
In 'As You Like It,' the line 'With a hey, and a ho, and a hey nonino' repeats several times in a song. What is the name for such lines that repeat regularly in a song or a poem?
refrain
705. Laws of Motion
Which of Newton's laws explains why a cannon is pushed backward when it is fired?
third law
706. Mideast Geography
What river forms the eastern border of the region in Israel called the West Bank?
Jordan River
707. Ballet Music
What ballet by Igor Stravinsky was based on the legend of a prince who captures a fabulous firebird and receives a magic feather from it?
The Firebird
708. The Skeletal System
What bone acts as a stop so that the hinge joint of the knee can open to about 180 degrees but no farther?
patella (kneecap)
709. Communication
What system of raised point writing devised by a French educator enables sightless people to read words and music?
Braille
710. Symbols
Although it had been used by several of the world's peoples for some thousands of years, what symbol came to represent mass murder, genocide, and tyranny after it was adopted by the Nazis?
swastika
711. Lodging
In contrast to the American plan, what lodging plan includes no meals?
European plan
712. Spreading the Word
Around the year 432, what missionary and future saint changed the course of Irish history by traveling around the island preaching peace and converting the Irish chieftains to Christianity?
St. Patrick
713. Ranching
What is untanned cattle skin called?
rawhide
714. Novelists
Name the American writer of these popular novels. Then Again, Maybe I Won't Superfudge
Judy Blume
715. Literary Forms
While Richard Dana's 'Two Years Before the Mast' is a novel of the sea, works such as Ole Rolvaag's 'Giants in the Earth' and Willa Cather's 'O Pioneers!' are novels of the what?
soil
716. Sentence Analysis
What is the predicate nominative in this example? Hollywood is a place where they place you under contract instead of under observation.
place
717. Electricity
Electrons can move more easily through a short thick wire than through one which is long and what?
thin
718. Seas
A flight from Kenya to India would fly over what enormous sea?
Arabian Sea
719. Voice
What grammatical voice is used in this sentence? The weather-beaten old house was being restored by the club.
passive
720. 20th-Century Clashes
Proxy wars, a nuclear arms race, and a space race were part of what post-World War II conflict in which the primary participants’ military forces never actually fought one another?
Cold War
721. Kilns
Name the instrument used to measure the temperature in a kiln beyond those measurable by ordinary thermometers.
pyrometer
722. Beaches
Name that zone of a beach profile that extends landward from the foreshore to where vegetation begins or where there is a change of physiography like a cliff or a sand dune field.
backshore
723. Court Rulings
The ruling in the 1896 Plessy v. Ferguson case was that segregation does not deprive blacks of the equal protection of the laws required by which amendment?
14th Amendment
724. Bygone Birds
A New Englander wrote in 1624, 'I have seen them fly over as if the whole sky were birds, seeing neither beginning nor ending, length or breadth of these millions of millions.' What now-extinct birds had he seen?
passenger pigeons
725. 5
On a globe, what lines are circles parallel to the equator?
lines of latitude
726. 5
Richmond, Virginia, and Boston, Massachusetts, were named after towns in England. Name either of the other two U.S. capitals so-named.
Hartford, Dover
727. Lofty States
A person successfully taken through these steps attains what? informal phase, investigative phase, evaluation and judgment phase, the miracle process, beatification, canonization
sainthood
728. Empires
The last significant outposts of the Spanish empire in the late 1800s included the Philippines and what two islands in the Caribbean?
Cuba, Puerto Rico
729. Explosive Energy
Potential energy stored in an explosive material may be nuclear like the fissile isotopes of uranium-235, or mechanical such as compressed air in an aerosol can, or it can be what kind of energy as in nitroglycerine?
chemical energy
730. Energy
Hammering a nail converts mechanical energy into what other form of energy?
thermal (heat)
731. Herbicides
If one-sixteenth of the total amount of the herbicide oxadiazon remains in the soil after 240 days, what is the half-life of this poison?
60 days
732. Modular Arithmetic
In mod 2, what is the answer for this problem?
26+55+8
733. Integumentary Injuries
These are stages of what injury to the skin resulting from exposure? -The exposed part of the body turns white, accompanied by a burning sensation. -The skin reddens, swells, and blisters. -The skin becomes waxy and hard, and it may turn purplish or black. -Nerves become damaged and feeling is lost.
frostbite
734. References
Annals and yearbooks are usually arranged on the shelf in what kind of order?
chronological
735. Missile Proportions
The government figured it would take 18 laser weapons to shoot down 200 incoming missiles. How many laser weapons are needed to down 4000 incoming missiles by to these statistics?
360
736. Hearsay
Hearsay evidence is inadmissible because what amendment to the U.S. Constitution gives the accused the right to confront witnesses against him?
6th amendment
737. Proverbs
A Japanese proverb says, 'The nail that sticks up gets hammered down.' What is the American equivalent of this proverb having to do with grease?
The squeaky wheel gets the grease
738. Franklin's Almanac
According to Poor Richard, what do fish and visitors do after three days?
stink (smell)
739. Volcanoes
Sometimes a volcanic cone is completely removed by erosion, leaving a mass of igneous rock that hardened inside the mountain. This feature is a volcanic ...
neck (core)
740. Gems
Most of the world's annual production of what gems comes from Colombia?
emeralds
741. Reproduction
A structure in which embryonic development takes place in reptiles is an ...
egg
742. Scientific Equations
The equations of what Scottish physicist showed the following? Electrical currents can cause magnetic fields. Changing magnetic fields can cause electrical currents. There are no single, isolated magnetic poles. Unlike charges attract while like charges repel.
James Maxwell
743. Solids
Determine the volume of a triangular solid 6' high, 5' wide, and 10' long.
150 cubic feet
744. Burns
What should you apply in great quantities to the part of a victim's body with a chemical burn?
water
745. Folklore
Name the sprites of Scottish superstitions that are supposed to do helpful housework at night.
brownies
746. Conquests
Two expeditions led directly to Spain's emergence as 16th-century Europe's wealthiest and most powerful nation. Name the two conquistadors who headed these expeditions.
Cortes, Pizarro
747.
What name is missing in this passage? Lincoln's first love affair of which there is any record was that with ----, a slender, blue-eyed blonde, nineteen years old, a very lovely and universally admired and generally fascinating girl of South Carolina descent, whose father kept the village tavern at New Salem, Illinois.
Anne Rutledge
748. Kansas History
From 1812 to 1821, the region that became Kansas was part of what larger territory?
Missouri Territory
749. Hawks
What bird whose wingspan may reach six feet is also known as a fish hawk?
osprey
750. Bodily Fluids
What substances produced in glands act as chemical messengers to control body functions such as growth, metabolism, and sexual development?
hormones
751. Superpowers
What two countries emerged as the world's superpowers at the end of World War II?
United States, Soviet Union
752. Disasters
What natural disasters are directly associated with plate tectonics?
earthquakes (tsunamis)
753. Occupations
Someone who drives cattle, pigs, or sheep to market is called a ...
drover
754. Multiple-use Abbreviations
What abbreviation means a certain Canadian province or a time before the year 1?
B.C.
755. Movie Inspirations
The movie, 'Clueless,' was loosely based on what Jane Austen novel in which the central character initially fails in her attempts at matchmaking?
Emma
756. Area Measurement
There are 4840 square yards in what standard measure of land area?
acre
757. Poisonous Plants
What plant that exudes the same toxin as poison ivy and poison oak is a small tree or shrub that has seven to eight leaflets on each stem?
poison sumac
758. Longfellow
This is from what poem by Longfellow? A sudden rush from the stairway, A sudden raid from the hall! By three doors left unguarded They enter my castle wall. They climb up into my turret O'er the arms and back of my chair; If I try to escape they surround me; Thev seem to be everywhere.
The Children's Hour
759. 5
What was the title of the absolute monarchs who governed Russia until 1917?
czar (or czarina)
760. Kitchen Physics
What common device in the kitchen elevates the boiling point of water?
pressure cooker
761. Plurals and Singulars
What is the singular of the word 'series'?
series
762. Adjectives
What degree of comparison is illustrated in this example? He is the least incorrigible student in our graduating class.
superlative
763. Minerals
Kimberlites occur as carrot-shaped, vertical intrusions called what?
pipes
764. Offenses
A police officer can be prosecuted if he uses unnecessary or excessive force against a citizen, an offense called police ...
brutality
765. Historical Novels
Graham Salisbury's novel, 'Under the Blood-Red Sun,' concerns a Japanese-American boy who becomes the man of the family when his father and grandfather are interned after an attack on American military facilities at what site?
Pearl Harbor
766. Clauses
What kind of dependent clause completes this? A spokesperson for Universal Studios acknowledged that 'a few bugs need to be ironed out' of the new theme park after the King Kong ride ate a Nebraska woman.
adverb clause
767. Trigonometric Angles
As an angle increases from 0 to 90 degrees, its
cotangent decreases from infinity to ...
768. Endocrine System
The proper function of what endocrine gland is dependent upon adequate iodine in the diet?
thyroid gland
769. Suppression
What is the term for the suppression of information or ideas by government officials, church authorities, or private pressure groups?
censorship
770. Legendary Places
What legendary place is indicated by these lyrics? A law was made a distant moon ago here: July and August cannot be too hot. And there's a legal limit to the snow here The winter is forbidden till December And exits March the second on the dot. By order, summer lingers through September
Camelot
771. Drama
What is the name for a tryout for a particular part in a play?
audition
772. Musicals
These songs appear in what Broadway musical? People Will Say We're in Love The Surrey with the Fringe on Top
Oklahoma!
773. Chemistry History
In 1870, what Russian chemist left 29 empty spots in his table for elements he correctly predicted would be discovered later?
Dmitri Mendeleev
774. Drama
What empire is the setting for the historical play with the words, 'Lend me your ears'?
Rome
775. Respiratory Problems
What is the term for a continuous, coarse, whistling sound in the chest during breathing?
wheezing
776. Island Economics
The most significant agricultural product of Cuba is ...
sugar cane
777. Moths
What part of a moth's life cycle occurs between the egg and pupa stages?
larva
778. Federal Support
What kind of grant is provided by the federal government to state and local governments with only broad stipulations on how the funds should be used?
block grant
779. Science Fiction
In 'Ender's Game,' humans are in conflict with Formics, insectoid aliens creatures which are also referred to by what other name?
Buggers
780. Algebraic Simplification
Simplify 8 + 3(2p + 5) + 7p.
13p + 23
781. Monarchs
Who is the queen of Australia?
Queen Elizabeth Il
782. Venn Diagrams
In a group of 50 boy scouts, 25 of them had knot-tying merit badges, 20 had tent-erection merit badges, and 12 had both. How many of the 50 scouts
had neither badge?
783. American Colonies
Georgia, the last of the thirteen colonies, was established in 1732. This was how many years after the founding of Jamestown?
125 years
784. Amendments
This statement by Abigail Adams is most directly related to which amendment finally ratified in 1920? In the new code of laws which I suppose it will be necessary for you to make, I desire you would remember the ladies.
19th Amendment
785. Inventions
Who invented the horse-drawn farming machine containing a cutting bar, a reel, a divider, guards over reciprocating knives, and a surface on which grain was deposited?
Cyrus McCormick
786. Sets
The multiples of .7 illustrate what kind of set?
infinite set
787. The U
What two countries joined in 1958 to form the United Arab Republic?
Egypt, Syria
788. Science Fiction Creatures
H.G. Wells wrote about two groups of creatures in 'The Time Machine.' Weena belonged to which group?
Eloi
789. Medieval Architecture
The main room of a palace, castle, or manor house during the Middle Ages was called the great what?
great hall
790. A Bright Idea
In 2007, Australia announced plans to ban incandescent light bulbs and replace them with what type of bulbs that are more energy efficient?
fluorescent
791. Games
You rack the balls such that a stripe ball is in one corner, a solid ball is in another corner, the #8 ball is placed in the center, and the remaining balls are placed randomly. What pool game are you playing?
eight ball
792. Stellar Magnitudes
A first-magnitude star is 100 times as bright as a star of what magnitude?
6th
793. Myofibrils
Myofibrils are the fundamental contractile portion of what kind of cells?
muscle cells
794. Legal Defenses
Leslie Bonnano was charged with a hit in Chicago on May 2nd of 1991. But Leslie truthfully said she was visiting her aged godfather in Sicily at the time. This legal defense is called an ...
alibi
795. Planets
Name the second biggest gas giant.
Saturn
796. Perverse Practices
What practice is indicated in this excerpt from the autobiography of Louis Hughes? I was a mere child, probably not more than six years of age, when my mother, two brothers, and myself were sold.
slavery
797. Military Bodies
What branch of the American military devoted a great deal of its effort in the 1920s to stopping the bootlegging of alcoholic beverages into the United States?
Coast Guard
798. 2
The 'year without a summer' occurred in 1816, a year after the exceptionally violent eruption of what Indonesian volcano that blew over 150 cubic kilometers of pumice and ash into the atmosphere?
Tambora
799. Orbits
The apogee is the point in the Moon's orbit where it is furthest from the center of what?
the Earth
800. Symbols
What two implements were the Soviet Union's symbols for industry and agriculture?
hammer, sickle
801. Fantasy Quotations
Complete this line uttered by the White Rabbit in 'Alice in Wonderland.' The hurrier I go, the ...
behinder | get
802. Astoundingly Big Trees
They may have trunks more than 10 meters in circumference and may reach heights in excess of 75 meters. Found in California, name the world's most massive trees.
sequoias
803. Graph Reflections
What are the coordinates of the point (7,-4) after it is reflected over the y-axis?
(-7,-4)
804. Eye Anatomy
Below the conjunctiva is what clear fibrous layer that covers the iris?
cornea
805. Composers
What Austrian composer wrote his first symphony at the age of eight and had written twenty-five by the time he was seventeen?
Wolfgang Mozart
806. Paralysis
Paralysis is most often caused by damage to what structure consisting of nerve tissue that runs along one's back?
spinal cord
807. Armor
What kind of armor worn by knights in the Middle Ages consisted of thousands of interlocking rings painstakingly linked by hand to form a shirt, cap, or leggings?
(chain) mail
808. Biological Change
Changes in a cell structure caused by accidents during gene duplication, by certain chemicals, and by penetrating radiation are called ...
mutations
809. Folklore
What is the Himalayan equivalent of the North American Sasquatch?
yeti
810. Environmental Vocabulary
What is the collective name for the treated or untreated wastewater that flows out of a sewer, mine, or industrial facility?
effluent
811. Gods of Petrology
Named for the Roman mythical god of the underworld, what kind of igneous rock results from magma that cools beneath Earth's surface?
plutonic
812. Plate Tectonics
Most of what country lies on the Anatolian plate?
Turkey
813. Dangling Phrases
What kind of phrase is dangling in this line? After flunking the final three times, Fred's professor decided to have him flogged.
gerund (or adverbial) phrase
814. Fruits
A legume is another name for a pod, a type of fruit produced either by beans or ...
peas
815. First Aid Vocabulary
The term 'lumbar' indicates what part of the body?
lower back
816. Chemical Compounds
What chemical compound has these characteristics? It has the formula HCOH. It is a colorless, pungent gas. It is made by oxidizing methyl] alcohol. It is the simplest of the aldehydes. It is used as a preservative.
formaldehyde
817. Solids
Which of the five Platonic solids begins with 'i'?
icosahedron
818. Big Rocks
Ayers Rock in Australia is composed of what kind of rock?
sandstone
819. Lakes
Name the largest lake in the Great Basin area of the US.
Great Salt Lake
820. Ecological Fundamentals
What consists of a group of closely related, interbreeding organisms that occupies a given geographic area?
population
821. Magnitude
What are astronomers measuring when they measure star magnitude?
brightness
822. Employers
Who was the employer of Mr. and Mrs. Tom Thumb?
P.T. Barnum
823. Flowers
What part of a flower is usually most colorful?
petal
824. Organ Vocabulary
'Cardiopulmonary' indicates what two organs?
lungs, heart
825. Arthropods
Name the most distal section of the arthropod body that lies behind the thorax or cephalothorax.
abdomen
826. Ancient Sculptures
An ancient Roman sculpture depicts what two babies getting milk from a wolf?
Romulus and Remus
827. Lobbying
The ability of individuals, groups, and corporations to lobby the government is protected by what right in the First Amendment?
right to petition
828. Sentence Analysis
What is the last word of the adverb clause in this statement? When weather turns cold, many mammals in the northern regions hibernate.
cold
829. Operatic Locations
In what country is the Ankara Opera House?
Turkey
830. Wave Phenomena
What phenomenon is illustrated by light changing direction when it enters a different medium or when sound passes from one medium to another or when water waves move into water of a different depth?
refraction
831. Monarchs
What 15th-century Spanish queen signed the Treaty of Tordesillas that divided the New World between Spain and Portugal?
Isabella
832. Wartime Statistics
Soldiers lost, including those missing in action, wounded, taken prisoner, or killed, are collectively counted as ...
casualties
833. Baseball Physics
You hit two balls. One is a baseball. The other is the same size as a baseball but weighs twice as much. How many times harder do you have to hit the heavier ball to make it go as far as the lighter one?
two times
834. Modifiers
What are the two superlative forms of the adjective, 'charitable'?
least (most) charitable
835. First Aid Malapropisms
What should the last two words be in this account? I'll never forget the time my brother choked at dinner and my father gave him the hemlock remover.
Heimlich Maneuver
836. Homonyms
Spell the word meaning 'cried or sobbed loudly' that is a homonym for an adjective indicating a lack of hair on the head.
bawled
837. Right Triangles
The lengths of two sides of a right triangle are 5 feet and 12 feet. How long is the hypotenuse?
13 feet
838. Roots
The oak has a long slender root with short lateral rootlets. Name this root system.
taproot system
839. Coercion
What is the term for violence against innocent people to further the political agenda of a group?
terrorism
840. Medical Providers
A soldier trained to provide first aid and frontline trauma care on the battlefield is called a ...
medic (combat medic, corpsmen)
841. Journalism Gaffes
What is the correct word for the one the newspaper got wrong in this headline? Keep Anecdote for Poisonings Close at Hand
antidote
842. U
This is from the lyrics of a song about whom? He captured Harper's Ferry, with his nineteen men so few, And frightened 'Old Virginny' till she trembled thru and thru; They hung him for a traitor, themselves the traitor crew, But his soul is marching on.
John Brown
843. Seasons
Which equinox occurs on September 22 or 23?
autumnal equinox
844. Regional Attire
Name the leather belt, especially popular in the Southwest, to which many large silver medallions are affixed.
concha (concho) belt
845. Medieval Science
This describes a medieval practitioner of what field of science? He placed bits of silver into a strong chemical called nitric acid, the silver dissolved, and a red vapor bubbled up and curled into the space above the surface of the liquid.
alchemy
846. Literary Styles
Hellenism indicates the assimilation of the thought and styles of what ancient civilization?
Greek
847. Speed Problems
A motorcycle and a truck left from a crossroads traveling in opposite directions. The motorcycle averaged 15 miles per hour faster than the truck. If they were 535 miles apart after 5 hours, how fast was the motorcycle going?
61 mph
848. Friction
Because the air that comes out of all the little holes in an air hockey table reduces the friction on the puck, the air is acting as what kind of substance?
lubricant
849. Vocal Music
What male singing voice is lower than tenor and higher than bass?
baritone
850. People of the Old West
In 1874, in what state was the prospector Alferd Packer convicted of manslaughter in relation to evidence presented that he had killed and consumed his associates when they were all snowbound and out of provisions in the Rockies?
Colorado
851. Proverbs
What common expression means that it is easier to endure discomfort if someone is experiencing it with you?
Misery loves company.
852. Medieval Medicine
In medieval Europe, what was the occupation of people called upon to perform bloodletting?
barbers
853. Codes
The airport code LAX refers to what city in California?
Los Angeles
854. Short Stories
These came from what Edgar Allan Poe tale? -'T shall not die of a cough.' 'True - true,' I replied. -He had a weak point, this Fortunato.
The Cask of Amontillado
855. Migration
Somewhat reminiscent of Hitler's 'final solution,' what was Andrew Jackson's policy calling for the forced migration of Indians from the southeastern states to unsettled lands across the Mississippi?
removal
856. Sports Malapropisms
What word should have been used in this sentence about football? The referee penalized the team for unnecessary roughage.
roughness
857. Archaeological Sites
It is made of massive stones arranged in concentric circles around a central altar. Name this prehistoric structure near Salisbury in southern England.
Stonehenge
858. Rock
What rocks are the products of deposition from either the mechanical or chemical breakdown of all pre-existing rock types?
sedimentary rocks
859. International Law
For what does the abbreviation stand in this 2011 headline? ICC Prosecutor Seeks Warrant for Qaddafi
International Criminal Court
860. Skeletal System
Name the thin, flat structures between each pair of vertebrae.
disks
861.
When an archduke's murder triggered a feud between Austria-Hungary and Serbia that prompted Russia to come to the aid of the Serbs, Germany to the aid of the Austrians, France to the aid of Russia, and England to the aid of Belgium, what war began?
World War |
862. Prisons
What prison used mainly for captured Union officers was in Richmond, Virginia?
Libby Prison
863. Animal Behavior
Name the depressions made by buffalo rolling and dusting themselves.
wallows
864. Clauses
What is the adjective clause in this example? Boonie golf, which requires a keen eye, is probably not the world's most demanding sport.
which requires a keen eye
865. Mixture Problems
A 21-gallon mixture of water and alcohol contains 7 gallons of alcohol. If 4 gallons of water are added, then the percentage of water in the mixture is ...
72%
866. Expeditions
On Columbus' first voyage, only two of his three ships returned to Spain. Name the one lost on a coral reef in the West Indies.
Santa Maria
867. Phrases
What is the prepositional phrase in this line? She always managed to remain ahead of me.
of me
868. Astronaut Combinations
Ten astronauts want to get aboard a rescue vehicle that only has room for seven. How many different sets of seven people could get aboard this craft?
120
869. Government Facilities
Containing 17.5 miles of corridors and some 37 million square feet of office space, it has five sides and five floors above ground. Name this largest office building in the world.
Pentagon
870. Novels
What kind of creatures are central to Michael Crichton's novel, 'Jurassic Park'?
dinosaurs
871. Stellar Geography
When observing the North Star, you measure the angle made by your line of sight and the horizon. That angle equals your ...
latitude
872. Weight
An object that weighs 72 pounds on Earth weighs how much on the Moon?
12 pounds
873. Parks
What national park established in 1890 and known especially for its glacially-carved valley embraces more than 750,000 acres on California's Tuolumne River?
Yosemite
874. Movie Making
What word is called out by a movie director ordering actors to begin playing a scene?
action
875. Speed
In relation to the speed of sound, how fast is an object moving at Mach 6?
6 times the speed of sound
876. Capitalization
What words should be capitalized in this line? we heard that aunt sue had written to mother.
we, aunt, sue, mother
877. Wings
What is the shape of a delta wing?
triangular
878. Sailing Adventures
In 2010, 16-year-old Abby Sunderland was unable to complete her quest to sail solo around the world when her boat was badly damaged in a storm in what body of water?
Indian Ocean
879. European History
This is about the early history of what country? Under the rule of the Etruscans, a large part of Latium was brought under control, and the Capitoline temple, the Circus Maximus, and the ancient Forum were built.
Italy (or Rome)
880. Scientific Quotes
What else, besides a really long bar did Archimedes say he needed to move the Earth?
a place to stand
881. Hemingway
In what work by Ernest Hemingway is this quote? The world is a fine place and worth fighting for.
For Whom the Bell Tolls
882. Chemical Poetry
The name of what silver-white metallic element is missing from this verse? I shoot the Hippopotamus With bullets made of ---- Because if I use leaden ones His hide is sure to flatten 'em.
platinum
883. Adjectives
What is the superlative form of the antonym of 'more'?
least
884. European History
What period encompasses the transition from the Middle Ages to the modern period?
the Renaissance
885. Electricity
Five 1.5 volt cells are connected in series. How many volts will result?
7.5 volts
886. National Monuments
Name the national monument in the Black Hills of South Dakota.
Mt. Rushmore
887. Horses
What is the term for a female horse two to five years of age?
filly
888. Combustion
What chemical reaction causes hay to combust spontaneously?
oxidation
889. Capitals
What capital city on the Iberian Peninsula is adjacent to the Atlantic?
Lisbon
890. Archimedes’ Principle
If the weight of an object in a fluid is greater than the weight of the fluid it displaces, what will the object do?
sink
891. Births
Millie Hamilton just gave birth to five identical twins. Collectively, the children of this multiple birth are referred to by what word?
quintuplets
892. Railroads
What railroad company was chartered in California in 1861 to build the western section of a projected transcontinental rail link?
Central Pacific
893. Drama
What is the stage direction borrowed from Latin that literally means 'they exit'?
exeunt
894. Air Routes
The shortest route from Perth, Australia to Tierra del Fuego is over what continent?
Antarctica
895. Forms of Government
What is a synonym for a representative democracy?
republic
896. Energy
As of the early part of the 21st century, what is the collective name for the type of fuels that have provided over 85% of the total energy used around the world?
fossil fuels
897. Historical Documents
What document was signed by these people? William Whipple Matthew Thornton Robert Paine William Williams Benjamin Rush Josiah Bartlett John Hancock
Declaration of Independence
898. Sculpture
What alloy composed of tin and copper is used in metal sculpture?
bronze
899. Botany
Thin outgrowths from a plant root's epidermis cells that increase the surface area of a root for absorption of water and minerals are called root ...
hairs
900. Traitors
What officer who was appointed commander of West Point in 1780 had been secretly supplying the British with information on General Washington's tactics since May of 1779?
Benedict Arnold
901. Queens
What ancient queen died from the bite of an asp?
Cleopatra
902. Battery Dangers
What gas is being given off when bubbling occurs in a battery cell?
hydrogen
903. Reformers
Numerous Protestant religious sects can be traced back to what early 16th-century German theologian who launched the Reformation?
Martin Luther
904. Verb Tenses
What tense is illustrated by this sentence? I have been on Devil's Island for nineteen years.
present perfect
905. Monuments
This is about what monument in England? Thirty upright stones, each about 18 feet high and 7 feet thick, were set in an outer ring about 100 feet across and spanned by lintels. Smaller upright stones form an inner ring. At the center is the altar stone and outside the entrance is the heel stone.
Stonehenge
906. Anatomy
Anatomically speaking, muscle, connective, nerve, and epithelial are four types of what?
tissues
907. Consumer Purchases
Economists refer to the quantity of goods and/or services which buyers are willing and able to purchase as the ...
demand
908. Furry Creatures
It is a furry creature about the size of a small mouse. It looks like a mouse, except for its pointed snout. Name this mammal with an enormous appetite.
shrew
909. Sports Injuries
Tendinitis is most likely to develop in what area of the body with people who regularly pitch balls, swing golf clubs or racquets, or swim?
shoulders (or elbows)
910. Architects
Who was the architect of the Monticello mansion in Virginia?
Thomas Jefferson
911. Colonial Real Estate
Roger Williams purchased land from the Narragansett Indians that became what state?
Rhode Island
912. Migrations
During what age that gripped Earth during the Pleistocene epoch were people and animals enabled to cross the Bering Strait land bridge?
Ice Age
913. Adiabatic Changes
Adiabatic temperature changes involve either cooling with expansion or warming with what other phenomenon?
compression (higher pressure)
914. Body Defenses
What body system defends against disease and invasion of microorganisms?
immune system
915. Geology
With what phenomenon are seismically-induced coastal-bluff failures associated?
earthquakes
916. Nth Roots
Find the tenth root of 60 to the 10th power.
60
917. Land Deals
The Russian government actually had to spend a large sum of money to gain the support of members of the U.S. Congress and important American newspapers for the $7 million purchase of what territory in 1867?
Alaska
918. Bizarre Poetry
Complete this passage. 'Twas brillig and the slithy toves did gyre and gimble in the wabe. All mimsy were the borogroves and the ...
mome raths outgrabe
919. Quadrilaterals
What figure is always formed by lines joining the midpoints of the sides of a rhombus in succession?
rectangle
920. Naval Vessels
What aircraft carrier sunk during the Battle of Midway was named after the site of Cornwallis’ surrender of the British forces in the American Revolution?
Yorktown
921. Philanthropists
This is about whom? In his 1895 will, he bequeathed the money he reaped from inventing dynamite to five prizes in various fields of human endeavor.
Alfred Nobel
922. Asian Nations
What nation of southeast Asia between Burma and Cambodia has a southern coastline on the Gulf of Siam and the Indian Ocean?
Thailand
923. Instrumental Music
What form of Spanish dance music usually includes pronounced finger tapping on the belly of a guitar?
flamenco
924. Disasters
This is about what city? By the time the fire was under control, 490 blocks had been leveled, 25,000 buildings had been destroyed, 225,000 people were homeless, and 452 had been killed. This disaster of 1906 was the worst in U.S. history.
San Francisco
925. Scientific Laws
That the internal energy change for any cyclic process is zero is another way of stating the first law of what?
thermodynamics
926. Wells
What kind of well results when a hole is drilled into a confined aquifer with enough hydraulic pressure for the water to flow to the surface without pumping?
artesian (flowing) well
927. Ecological Relationships
Because the clownfish lives among the tentacles of sea anemones, feeding on the anemones' leftover food but remaining unaffected by their stinging tentacles, what symbiotic relationship exists between the two?
commensalism
928. Revolutions
Major developments during the Industrial Revolution included Watt's steam engine, Kay's flying shuttle, Cartwright's power loom, and Hargreaves' ...
spinning jenny
929. Songs
Hit popular songs from earlier years, especially the 1950s, are called golden what?
oldies
930. Weather Sayings
Who said this? Everybody talks about the weather but nobody does anything about it.
Mark Twain
931. Novels
Who is the central character in the American novel from which this passage was taken? The cars zoomed by, the brakes screeched all over the place, his parents paid no attention to him, and he kept on walking next to the kerb and singing 'If a body catch a body coming through the rye.' It made me feel better. It made me feel not so depressed anymore.
Holden Caulfield
932. Nonfiction
Complete this title. Spirit of Endurance - The True Story of the Shackleton Expedition to the ...
Antarctic
933. Nutritious Fruits
It contains twice as much protein as the same volume of milk, more than 3 times as much fat, nearly 10 times as much carbohydrate, 3 times as much vitamins A, B, and C, and more than twice as many calories. Name this pear-shaped fruit from a tropical American tree.
avocado
934. Sentence Transformations
Restate the following sentence replacing the prepositional phrase with an indirect object. Marybelle wrote an ode to me.
Marybelle wrote me an ode.
935. Authors
Who wrote these novels? Mr. Midshipman Hornblower Lieutenant Hornblower Hornblower and the Hotspur Hornblower and the Atropos Commodore Hornblower
C.S. Forester
936. Settings
Many of the 'One Thousand and One Nights' tales are set in what ancient city adjacent to the Tigris River?
Baghdad
937. Founding Fathers
Complete this quote by George Washington. To be prepared for war is one of the most effectual means of preserving ...
peace
938. Acronyms
For what does the 'FT' stand in the abbreviation 'NAFTA'?
free trade
939. Book Parts
In a book, what is the termf or each side of each leaf?
page
940. Short Stories
In what story does Tessie Hutchinson win something she truly does not want?
The Lottery
941. Joints
What joint is at the junction of the femur, tibia, and fibula?
knee
942. Polling
What kind of survey conducted at selected polling places provides data allowing the media to estimate the final results of an election?
exit polling
943. Polytheism
These are gods of what Asian religion? Kali, Ganesha, Hanuman, Vishnu, Shiva
Hindu
944. Sentence Analysis
What grammatical construction follows the question words in these examples? I simply don't know what to do. I can't decide where to go. I don't understand how to fly.
infinitive
945. Vegetables
This is a totally erroneous definition of what plant with edible stems and enormous leaves? celery gone bloodshot
rhubarb
946. Slopes
What is the slope of the line whose equation is this?
y=mx+b
947. Parts of Speech
What part of speech is the word 'zounds'?
interjection
948. Allusions
What American dramatist alluded to this biblical passage in the title of one of his plays? My bone cleaveth to my skin and to my flesh, and I am escaped with the skin of my teeth.
Thornton Wilder
949. Peninsulas
What Mexican peninsula is closest to Cuba?
Yucatan Peninsula
950. Division of Fractions
Express this answer in lowest terms. Divide 5/6 by the quotient of 2/3 divided by 1/a.
5/4a
951.
For a constant speed, distance equals velocity multiplied by time. Using the same quantities, what does time equal?
distance divided by velocity
952. Literature
Prose is divided into two major categories. With which category are these authors mainly associated? William Faulkner Herman Melville Zane Grey Mark Twain
fiction
953. World Ecology
It took 1700 years for this number to double since the year 1 A.D. Then it doubled again in 200 years and doubled again in the next 100 years. The doubling time in the early 21st century is around 35 years. These statistics refer to the world's population of what organism?
man (people)
954. Folk Music
What is the title of a folksong about a canal from Albany to Buffalo, New York?
The Erie Canal
955. Idioms
Repair the incorrect idiom in this line. Two months ago, you were warned about taking the Israelis for granite.
for granted
956. Gardening
What is the collective name for herbaceous plants that live beyond one flowering season?
perennial
957. Arm of the Mediterranean
What sea is immediately north of the Ionian Sea?
Adriatic Sea
958. Vipers
Name the organ on some vipers, between the nostril and the eye on either side of the face, that is sensitive to infrared radiation and can detect temperature differences of only thousandths of a degree.
pit
959. Clouds
If there is a cumulus cloud between you and the Sun, it generally appears what color?
gray (black)
960. Folklore
With what island nation are zombie legends mainly associated?
Haiti
961. Tools of Officiating
Name the small ceremonial, hardwood mallet used by presiding officers such as auctioneers, judges, and chairpersons to call for the conclusion of a transaction, to call for attention, or to punctuate rulings.
gavel
962. Botany
The choking of a branch or trunk that has been tied too tightly by a wire or rope is called ...
girdling
963. For the Birds
Although they were so plentiful in 1736 that they sold at six for a penny in Boston, what birds became extinct in 1914?
passenger pigeons
964. Equations
Solve this equation for s. r= 35-1
(r+t)/3
965. Metals
What adjective applies to rare metallic elements of high economic value?
precious
966. Latin American Relationships
What Latin American country had the strongest military and economic ties to the Soviet Union?
Cuba
967. Poetic Feet
How many feet are in one line of heptameter?
seven
968. Ancient Enemies
When Xerxes ascended to the throne, what people were his chief enemy?
Greeks
969. Grammatical Constructions
What conjunction usually follows these clauses? It is a well-known fact It is strange It is a shame It is unfortunate
that
970. Tense Changes
Restate this sentence in the present perfect progressive tense. You do something to me.
You have been doing something to me.
971. Incidents
The Marco Polo Bridge incident of 1937 led to war between what two Asian countries?
Japan, China
972. Egyptian Literature
What is the disk in the Egyptian poem, 'Adoration of the Disk'? Thy dawn, O Ra, opens the new horizon, and every realm you have made to live Is conquered by thy love, as joyous day follows thy footsteps in delightful peace.
Sun
973. Atmospheric Gases
What is produced in the stratosphere when solar radiation breaks up diatomic molecules of oxygen into monatomic molecules which then join with other diatomic molecules of oxygen to produce triatomic molecules?
ozone
974. Homonyms
Spell the word meaning 'anything whatever' that is a homonym for an auxiliary verb meaning 'should.'
aught
975. Trapezoids
52 is the perimeter of an isosceles trapezoid. Each of the equal sides is 5 more than the smaller base. The larger base is 2 more than twice the smaller base.
What is the length of either of the equal sides?
976. Archaeology
Ur, Nineveh, and Babylon are archaeological sites in what country?
Iraq
977. 4
What is the greatest possible value of a number if five more than the quotient of the number and 2 is at least
that number?
978. NASA Disasters
Name both space shuttles destroyed in horrific accidents.
Challenger, Columbia
979. Expeditions
In 1741, people in an expedition sponsored by what nation became the first Europeans to land on the northwestern coast of North America?
Russia
980. Parallelograms
Name the parallelogram in which the diagonals are congruent and perpendicular to each other.
square
981. Economics
What non-monetary system is used in these examples? Fred receives a bushel of pears for tuning up Gloria's VW engine. Jane gets use of her neighbor's pool for mowing their yard each week.
barter
982. Wartime Conferences
At what conference in 1945 did American, Russian, and British officials agree that Germany was to be disarmed and demilitarized, her National Socialist institutions dissolved, and her leaders tried as war criminals?
Potsdam Conference
983. Journalism
Name the time that a story must be submitted in order to be included in a newspaper edition.
deadline
984. Terrorism
For decades in Northern Ireland, terrorism was associated with what organization?
IRA (Irish Republican Army)
985. Composite Numbers
Divide the sum of the first three composite numbers
by the fourth composite number.
986. Gear Systems
In a planetary gear system, what is the name for the outer gear turned by the planetary gears?
ring gear
987. Insurance
What is the name for the memorandum given by an insurance company to a person which provides for temporary protection until a formal policy is issued?
binder
988. Line Equations
What is the equation for a line with a slope of -4 and a
y-intercept of 0?
989. Insects
Ladybugs are major predators of what small, sap-sucking insects also known as plant lice?
aphids
990. African Valleys
What gorge in western Thebes contains the tombs of at least sixty pharaohs beginning with Thutmose?
Valley of the Kings
991. Presidential Elections
U.S. states with the smallest populations each have
how many votes out of 535 in the Electoral College?
992. Airplanes
Name the airplane of the U.S. president.
Air Force One
993. Surnames
What last name is shared by these people? -Dan, an American novelist -Les, a big band leader -Louise, the first test-tube baby -Gordon, a British prime minister -John, an abolitionist
Brown
994. Currency Value
The lowering of the exchange value of a currency by reducing its gold equivalency is called what?
devaluation
995. Mesopotamians
What ancient seafaring Mesopotamian people, famous for their process of dying fabric purple, also invented glassblowing?
Phoenicians
996. Bay States
Name either state that is adjacent to Chesapeake Bay.
Virginia, Maryland
997. Disasters
According to some accounts, it was sparks from the great Chicago fire of 1871 that started the forest fires that destroyed a million acres of Michigan and Wisconsin timberland. In this fire, more than 1200 people died in what Wisconsin logging town?
Peshtigo
998. Astronomy
The V.L.A. is an abbreviation for 'very large array.' This is a group of telescopes designed to detect what kind of waves?
radio
999. Glaciers
Reminiscent of a word from cattle ranching, what is the term for the separation of a mass of ice from a glacier?
calving
1000. Weight
If your pet baby rhinoceros weighs 1000 pounds in your back yard, what is its weight at an altitude of 4000 miles?
250 pounds
1001. Oceanography
The highest percentage of any ocean, the floor of which ocean is about 50% continental shelf?
Arctic Ocean
1002. Low Roads
The lowest point on Earth that is accessible by automobile is along the shores of what body of water?
Dead Sea
1003. Battles
These were engagements of what war? Kham Duc, Long Khanh, Binh Ba, Tet Offensive
Vietnam War
1004. Figurative Language
What figure of speech did Henry James use when he described Theodore Roosevelt as 'a wonderful little machine destined to be overstrained, perhaps, but not as yet betraying the least creak'?
metaphor
1005. Breeds
These are breeds of what kind of animals? Minorcas, Wyandottes, Cochins, Anconas, Leghorns, Brahmas
chickens
1006. Military Disasters
In 1812, Napoleon's army suffered nearly 500,000 casualties while retreating from what Eastern European city?
Moscow
1007. Slang
What slang adjective indicating a lack of direct light means dishonest and unethical?
shady
1008. Homonyms
What word can mean an intense bright light or to stare angrily?
glare
1009. Shakespearean Idioms
Complete this expression that first appeared in 'Love's Labour Lost.' the apple of her ...
eye
1010. Ancient Rome
Who was the twin brother of Romulus?
Remus
1011. Criticism
This is about what American short story author? He wrote too much and too fast. He was also addicted to the surprise ending, a type of story that delighted the readers of his day but has long since been out of fashion.
O. Henry (William Sydney Porter)
1012. Novels
Complete this title of Karen Hesse's novel about what happened to a family during the terrible drought and storms of the 1930s in the panhandle of Texas. Out of the ...
Dust
1013. Presidential Health
While on a grueling cross-country speaking tour of the U.S. promoting the League of Nations, what president collapsed and was rushed back to Washington, where he suffered a major stroke?
Woodrow Wilson
1014. Bygone Theories
This was evidence for what theory? If the Sun occupied the center of the celestial sphere, we would pass near different parts of the sphere at different times, and the sizes and shapes of the constellations should vary.
geocentric
1015. Biomes
These are typical animals of which biome? lemmings, caribou, reindeer, polar foxes
tundra
1016. Crime
Sheriff Sara arrested Mitchell who was the lookout when Ricky wounded Carl while robbing Buford's Barbecue. Who was the accomplice?
Mitchell
1017. Ancient Regions
Name the region that stretched around the Syrian Desert from Palestine on the Mediterranean Sea through the upper Tigris and Euphrates Rivers, and down to the Persian Gulf.
Fertile Crescent
1018. Distance Problems
What is the number of feet traversed in one second by a car going 30 miles per hour?
44 feet
1019. Proverbs
How is this proverb usually stated? Tribulation is enamored of aggregations.
Misery loves company.
1020. Mountainous States
In what state would you find the Bitterroot Range, the Lost River Range, the White Cloud Mountains, and the Salmon River Mountains?
Idaho
1021. Science Fiction Dialogue
This is from what Robert Heinlein story? 'As it was in the beginning, so it now and ever shall be, World without end.' Mike smiled happily. 'You grok it!' 'I don't grok it,' Jubal answered gruffly.
Stranger in a Strange Land
1022. Marches
Composed by John Philip Sousa, name the official march of the U.S. Marines.
Semper Fidelis
1023. Algae Comparisons
Phytoplankton is microscopic while seaweed is ...
macroscopic
1024. Hormones
What hormone gives the body extra energy in times of stress?
adrenaline (epinephrine)
1025. Digraphs
What word contains the first instance of a consonant digraph in the lyrics of 'Home on the Range'?
where
1026. Essays
Who wrote an essay containing these thoughts? -Government is best which governs least. -Individual conscience is the moral arbiter.
Henry Thoreau
1027. Paintings
What type of portrait is an artist producing when he attempts to create his own image?
self-portrait
1028. Business Pricing
Reminiscent of organisms that live by consuming other organisms, what kind of pricing is the practice of selling a service or product at a very low price in order to dominate a market and drive out competition?
predatory pricing
1029. Jurisdictions
Decisions made in any of the 94 U.S. district courts are subject to review, first, by one of 13 upper courts. What kind of courts are these?
U.S. courts of appeals
1030. Crafts
What is the hyphenated name for the craft of dyeing a fabric after binding parts of it so tightly that no dye may be absorbed?
tie-dyeing
1031. Poetic Legends
What word completes this verse? My name is Tom Thumb, From the fairies I've come. When King Arthur shone, His court was my home. In me he delighted, By him I was ...
knighted
1032. Injuries
What is the general name for injuries to organs such as the liver, pancreas, stomach or lungs that involve significant blood loss?
internal bleeding
1033. Legal Positions
Complete this line by Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr. The right to swing my fist ends where the other man's nose ...
begins
1034.
What noun describes the line of heavy thunderstorms that advances just ahead of a fast-moving cold front?
squall
1035. Colonial Powers
What European country controlled major colonies in northeastern and southern Africa?
England (Great Britain)
1036. Clothing
These items of apparel are particularly related to what country? imperial yellow jacket, shenyi, mandarin collar, Mao suit
China
1037. The Liberty Bell
A person wanting to see the Liberty Bell would have to travel to what state?
Pennsylvania
1038. Presidential Provisions
A provision in what article of the U.S. Constitution requires the president to give to the Congress information relating to the state of the union?
Article II
1039. Music
The main pitch or tonal center to which all of a composition's pitches are related is the ...
key
1040. Park Rock
What broad category of rock characterizes most of the landscape and geological features in Bryce Canyon, Capitol Reef, and Canyonlands national parks?
sedimentary
1041. Early Documentaries
The 1922 documentary entitled 'Nanook of the North' demonstrated the construction of what kind of Inuit dwelling?
igloo
1042. Local Government
These are generally functions of what level of local government in the U.S.? -controlling election records and supervising elections -maintaining records on births, deaths, and marriages -maintaining property records -providing rural law enforcement
county
1043.
The eldest son of a Russian czar was the czarevitch. The czar's wife was called the ...
czarina
1044. Oceanography
What adjective describes zones that are linear ocean floor scarps or ridges offsetting the mid-ocean ridge and its axial rift?
fractures
1045. Amendments
Which amendment guarantees separation of church and state?
1st amendment
1046. Aircraft Technology
What is the general term for aircraft designed to avoid radar detection?
stealth
1047. Diseases
Mr. Gonzo is pale. He has a high rate of heartbeat and is experiencing difficulty in breathing. A doctor's examination shows he has a deficiency in hemoglobin and in red blood cells, a condition with what name?
anemia
1048. Expressions
What kind of overused expressions are illustrated in this passage? I am proud to say that, when the chips were down, Americans did not turn tail and knuckle under. Instead, when the fat was in the fire, they stepped up to the plate and cut the mustard.
idioms (cliches)
1049. Novels
In what novel by John Steinbeck do several friends hunt frogs to finance a party for their friend, Doc?
Cannery Row
1050. Police Agencies
They claim to always get their man. Who are they?
Royal Canadian Mounted Police
1051. Points
Find the distance between these two points. A (-4,7) and B (4,-8)
17
1052. Solar Observation
At noon of what day in the Northern Hemisphere does the Sun appear as high in the sky as it ever does?
June 21
1053. Proverbs
The proverb, 'A word spoken is past recalling,' can also be expressed as 'What's done is' what?
done
1054. Monuments
What monument in Missouri is made entirely of stainless steel and was built to commemorate the westward expansion following the Louisiana Purchase of 1803?
Gateway Arch
1055. Canine History
Saint Bernard dogs were originally bred in what country?
Switzerland
1056. Tragedies
All 269 people aboard a Boeing 747 were killed in 1983 when a Soviet MiG shot it down. The jumbo jet was operated by an airline from what country?
Korea
1057. Mathematical Properties
What mathematical property makes this statement true? 23x) = (2)G3)@)
associative property
1058. Trials
Who said this during her trial in 1873? In your ordered verdict of guilty, you have trampled every vital principle of our government. My natural rights, civil rights, political rights, are all alike ignored. Robbed of the fundamental privilege of citizenship, I and all of my sex are degraded from the status of citizens to that of subjects.
Susan Anthony
1059. Scientific Abbreviations
What unit of measurement is represented by the abbreviation, kcal?
kilocalorie
1060. Musicals
In what musical does Hysterium sing 'I'm Calm,' Philia and Hero sing 'Lovely,' Pseudolus and Hero sing 'Free,' and Miles Gloriosus sing 'Bring Me My Bride'?
A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum
1061. Syllabication
How many syllables are in the last line of this quatrain? The sense of danger must not disappear. The way is certainly both short and steep, However gradual it looks from here;
Look if you like, but you will have to leap.
1062. Hydrocarbons
Used as a household fuel and refrigerant, what hydrocarbon is a gas, one molecule of which consists of 4 carbon atoms and 10 hydrogen atoms?
butane
1063. Stringed Instruments
What musical instrument consists of a flat sounding box with 30 to 45 strings stretched over it and played horizontally with fingertips or picks?
zither
1064. Angles
What is the supplement of an angle whose complement is 20 degrees?
110 degrees
1065. Energy Conversions
Depending on their purpose, windmills may directly convert the kinetic energy of wind into what two other forms of energy?
electrical, mechanical
1066. Weapons
This passage is about what weapon? The white spectators were astonished at the dexterity and incredible force with which a flat, bent, edged stick, slightly resembling a Turkish scimitar, was thrown by the native Australian.
boomerang
1067. Squares
What is the perimeter of a square with an area of 169(x squared) square feet?
52x feet
1068. Etymology
What word was derived from the name of a Greek forest god with goat's legs and a human torso who inspired fear in travelers?
panic
1069. Islands
These are islands of what U.S. state? Matagorda, Pelican, Brazos, South Padre, Galveston
Texas
1070. Elemental Etymology
The name for what element comes from the Greek word, 'chloros,' meaning 'green'?
chlorine
1071. Forms of Government
Plato favored a government of the best and wisest men tuling in the interest of the entire state. This form of government is an ...
aristocracy
1072. Infinitive Phrases
Name the infinitive phrase in this sentence. The members decided while in the bus in route to Memphis that to change the policy now would not be in their best interests.
to change the policy now
1073. Iconic Sculpture
What statue is indicated in this limerick? His gift from the City of Light Holds her torch on our shores, shining bright. Bartholdi's great feat At our door serves to greet New arrivals, a welcoming sight.
Statue of Liberty
1074. European History
Through major reclamation projects, what European nation is especially known for transforming what were formerly lakes, mudflats, and marshes into usable land called polders?
Netherlands
1075. Historical Figures
Steve Biko, Paul Kruger, Pieter Botha, Andres Pretorius, and Nelson Mandela played significant roles in the history of what country?
South Africa
1076. Humidity
The air in a closed container is saturated with water vapor at 20 degrees C. What is its relative humidity?
100%
1077. Automobile History
A 1996 history of the Volkswagen Company depicts in detail just how completely the company was originally a creature of what political party?
Nazi (National Socialist)
1078. Gerunds
Gerunds end with what letters?
ing
1079. Lightning
Annually, which U.S. state has the greatest number of lightning injuries and deaths?
Florida
1080. Tombs
Mumtaz Mahal and Shah Jehan lie side by side in a vault beneath the central dome of what Asian monument?
Taj Mahal
1081. Cells
A plexus is a mass of what kind of cells?
neurons (nerve cells)
1082. Satellites
In 2012, in addition to Charon, Nix, Hydra, and P4, astronomers announced they had discovered a fifth moon orbiting what dwarf planet?
Pluto
1083. Islands
Because they cross the 180-degree meridian, what islands that include the westernmost part of the United States also include its easternmost part?
Aleutian Islands
1084. Broadcasters
Axis Sally was a broadcaster during the 1940s associated with what political party?
Nazi (National Socialist)
1085. Monumental Beginnings
In 1884, the cornerstone of what monument on Bedloe's Island in Upper New York Bay was laid?
Statue of Liberty
1086. Electrical Circuitry
What is said to occur when an electrical current bypasses the load in a circuit?
a short (short circuit)
1087. Humor
What form of humor is illustrated in this line? While the health risk of eating raw eggs is real, so too is the potential for eggsessive overreaction.
pun
1088. Urban Anagrams
The same letters are used in the name of the Japanese capital city and what other city of Honshu that has long been a cultural, artistic, and religious center?
Kyoto
1089. Doggerel
What term beginning with 'q' completes this ditty by Ogden Nash? He without benefit of scruples His fun and money soon ...
quadruples
1090. Point of View
Narration in this passage is in what person? Lieutenant Don Field dived his Phantom jet toward the Vietcong bunker on the hilltop in a roaring burst of fury.
third
1091. Split Islands
What island of northwest Europe contains an entire country and part of another larger one?
Ireland
1092. African Geography
These African nations are contiguous to what body of water? Angola Liberia Cameroon Sierra Leone
Atlantic Ocean
1093. Capes
What cape is just south of Tierra del Fuego?
Cape Horn
1094. Settlements
Sault Sainte Marie, founded in 1668, was the first permanent European settlement in the Michigan region. It is located between which two of the Great Lakes?
Superior, Huron
1095. Prime Numbers
Express the number 126 as a product of its primes.
2x3x3x7
1096. Political Slang
In the 1920s, what color indicated Communism?
red
1097. Old West Folksongs
What is the surname of the dead man in this verse? It was Robert Ford, that dirty little coward, I wonder how he does feel For he ate of Jesse's bread and he slept in Jesse's bed And laid poor Jesse in his grave.
James
1098. Rivers
What is the largest river between Denali and the Gates of the Arctic national parks?
Yukon
1099. Newspapers
These are newspapers in what state? Ithaca Times The Buffalo News East Hampton Star Poughkeepsie Journal Cooperstown Crier Finger Lakes Times Gotham Gazette
New York
1100. Delusions
What category of delusion is illustrated by people believing that they are someone famous or powerful like a queen, a president, or a movie star?
delusions of grandeur (grandiose delusions)
1101. Washington D
The two states that ceded land for the nation's capital were Virginia and what other?
Maryland
1102. Glucose
Plants use sunlight to turn water and what gas into glucose?
carbon dioxide
1103. Petrology
Name the group of processes that convert loose, unconsolidated sediment into sedimentary rock.
lithification (diagenesis)
1104. Movement
The push or pull needed to move a body is called ...
force
1105. Logic
What is the converse of this conditional? If the bug is long, then its legs are myriad.
If its legs are myriad, then the bug is long.
1106. Tracts
What tract in the body includes the nose, throat, larynx, trachea, bronchial tubes, and lungs?
respiratory tract
1107. Religious Analogies
Jews are to synagogues as Muslims are to ...
mosques
1108. Weasels
Identify the largest of the weasels.
wolverines
1109. Sap
Name the unusually milky, viscous sap of the rubber tree.
latex
1110. English History
In 1721, Robert Walpole became the first in British history to hold what office?
prime minister
1111. Latin America
The northern part of what South American country is drained by the Salado, Parana, and Uruguay rivers?
Argentina
1112. Fish
Orvis Browning caught a trout in Lake Michigan one day, and noticed a large circular scar on its side. This scar is evidence that the fish was attacked by what member of the class Agnatha?
lamprey
1113. Short Stories
From what story are these lines taken? 'Villains!' I shrieked. 'Dissemble no more! I admit the deed! Tear up the planks! - Here! It is the beating of his hideous heart!'
The Tell-Tale Heart
1114. Phrases
What kind of phrase completes this quote by James Thurber? Human Dignity has gleamed only now and then and here and there, in lonely splendor, throughout the ages, a hope of the better men, never an achievement of the majority.
prepositional phrase
1115. Poetic Meter
What meter is used in these lines? Just knock three times and whisper low That you and I were sent by Joe
tetrameter
1116. Circles
To the nearest hundredth, what is the circumference of a circle one yard in diameter?
3.14 yards
1117. Clauses
What kind of subordinate clause is illustrated in this example? Anyone who chortles should bring a silly hat.
adjective clause
1118. Long-Eared Misnomers
What is the misleading name of the hare common in the wilds of central and western North America?
jackrabbit
1119. 20th-Century Wars
This is about a war in what country? During the nine-year war, 130,000 Soviet troops, with massive air and armor support, proved unable to defeat the mujahideen.
Afghanistan
1120. History Vocabulary
People of Western cultures are Occidentals. People from Eastern cultures are called ...
Orientals
1121. 1
Federal programs providing services to farmers are administered by what U.S. executive department?
Department of Agriculture
1122. Art
Name the line at which the ground and the sky meet in a painting.
horizon
1123.
The anger of what warrior in the war between the Mycenaeans and Troy is told in 'The Iliad'?
Achilles
1124. Air Masses
The leading edge of a moving cold air mass is a cold what?
front
1125. Symbols
What ideology was represented by the hammer and sickle?
communism
1126. Scientific Graphing
Values of the dependent variable in an experiment are traditionally graphed on which axis of a graph?
vertical (y) axis
1127. Legal Idioms
The law-abiding route through life is called the straight and what?
narrow
1128. Legal Orders
An order issued by an administrative agency directing an individual or a corporation to refrain from some proscribed business practice is a ---- order.
cease and desist
1129. U
'Heart of Dixie' is on the license plates of what state?
Alabama
1130. Trail Combinations
There are 3 trails between Jerkwater and Podunk and 4 trails between Podunk and Whistlestop. In how many ways can you go from Jerkwater to Whistlestop by way of Podunk?
12
1131.
What kind of cellar is described in this excerpt? Nothing would sleep in that cellar, dank as a ditch, Bulbs broke out of boxes hunting chinks in the dark, Shoots dangled and drooped, Lolling obscenely from mildewed crates, Hung down long yellow evil necks, like trovical snakes.
root cellar
1132. Big Eyes
In 2008, New Zealand marine biologists were studying the carcass of what colossal creature when they measured its eye at eleven inches across, the largest animal eye on earth?
giant squid
1133. Rain Shadows
What mountain range is mostly responsible for the rainshadow that is characteristic of the Great Basin?
Sierra Nevada (Sierras)
1134. Aesop Says
The moral, 'Do not trust flatterers,' concludes a fable by Aesop that involves a fox and what kind of bird high in the branches of a tree with a piece of cheese in its beak?
crow
1135. Poe
Which of Edgar Allan Poe's short stories is set during the Spanish Inquisition?
The Pit and the Pendulum
1136. Ancient Astronomy
The ancient Egyptians noticed that a certain very bright star began appearing above the horizon just before the floods came. Name this heavenly body also known as the 'Dog Star.'
Sirius
1137. Heat
Under what circumstances can heat flow from an object with a lower temperature to one with a higher temperature?
none
1138. Island History
What island in San Francisco Bay was discovered by the Spanish in 1545 and named in 1775 for its pelicans?
Alcatraz
1139. Jellyfish Stings
If you are stung by a jellyfish, you should not wash the affected area with fresh water, as that may stimulate stinging cells to release more venom. Instead, you should use what liquid common in kitchens that is a dilute solution of acetic acid?
vinegar
1140. Pronouns
What category of pronouns is illustrated in these examples? This is my fondest desire. That is your date. These are my scruples.
demonstrative pronouns
1141. Spices
What pungent condiment popular in India is made from a blend of cumin, coriander, fenugreek, pepper, turmeric, and other spices?
curry (curry powder)
1142. Grammar
In what 'person' is the person spoken about?
third person
1143. Phosphorylation
Phosphorylation is the conversion of ADP to ...
ATP
1144. Amendments
Which amendment guarantees the assistance of counsel during legal proceedings?
Sixth Amendment
1145. Stage Shows
A jointed puppet manipulated by strings or wires attached to its limbs is called a ...
marionette
1146. Election Metaphors
Candidates who are victorious in local or state elections largely because of the popularity of more powerful politicians are said to have been riding what?
coattails
1147. Rock Formation
Metamorphic processes stop when temperatures become high enough to completely melt rock, in which case the type of rock then formed has what classification?
igneous
1148. Algebraic Evaluation
Evaluate 5x + 2 when x = 20.
102
1149. Rivers
What river forms the border between Vermont and New Hampshire before flowing through Massachusetts and Connecticut?
Connecticut River
1150. Organized Speculation
What is it that Stephen Hawking called a good one if it does these things? -describes a large class of observations on the basis of a model with few arbitrary elements -makes definite predictions about the results of future observations -applies to a variety of circumstances
a theory
1151. Volume
What is the volume of a triangular box 20 centimeters long with a base of 6 cm and a height of 4 cm?
240 cc
1152. Drama
To an actor, what does 'Break a leg' mean?
Good luck.
1153. Meteorological Evidence
The five warmest years in the past 130 occurred in the 1990s. Many scientists regard this fact as evidence for what phenomenon related to increased atmospheric carbon dioxide?
greenhouse effect
1154. Logarithm Rules
Complete this rule. log (a/b) = loga-...
log b
1155. The Heart
Atrium is to upper as ---- is to lower.
ventricle
1156. Chemowocky
What lightweight, corrosion-resistant, metallic element used as a moderator in nuclear reactors completes this parodied verse of 'Jabberwocky'? Beware the Hydrogen, my son! The teeth that bite! The chops that chum! Beware the Bismuth bird, and shun The dread ...
Beryllium
1157. Physiology
What in the body has these characteristics? -synthesized by living cells -effective in minute quantities -secreted into the bloodstream and transported by the circulatory system -acts on a target organ distant from the site where it was synthesized -regulates a physiological function
hormone
1158. Oceania Geography
What is the southwesternmost Polynesian country?
New Zealand
1159. Vows
In marriage vows, what words often precede the following? .. and obey
love, honor
1160. Parallel Structure
Change the infinitive into a gerund to correct this sentence. Rancid likes hunting, fishing, and to row.
rowing
1161. Etymology
The name for which classification of rock was derived from a Latin word meaning 'fire'?
igneous
1162. Stories
Several animal stories such as 'How the Leopard Got His Spots' and 'How the Elephant Got His Trunk' are in the 'Just So Stories' by ...
Rudyard Kipling
1163. Meteorology
What type of meteorological phenomenon has had such names as Alice, Bud, Clara, and Daniel?
hurricanes
1164. Circulatory System
Which blood vessels have these characteristics? -thin walls with little elasticity -valves -little muscle -carry blood to the heart
veins
1165. Factoring
Factor 16p + 40.
8(2p + 5)
1166. Athletes
What American swimmer who participated in the 2008 and 2012 Olympic Games became the most decorated Olympian of all time?
Michael Phelps
1167. International Economics
The balance of trade is essentially the ratio of what is paid for imports to that which is earned from what?
exports
1168.
The musical, 'Once Upon a Mattress,' was based on what Hans Christian Andersen fairy tale?
The Princess and the Pea
1169. Ratification
Name any of the four states that initially did not ratify the U.S. Constitution.
RI, NC, NY, VA
1170. Russian Rulers
What was the Russian equivalent of 'emperor'?
czar
1171. Mythical Women
A woman who robbed travelers was turned into a dangerous whirlpool on the coast of Sicily opposite a six-headed monster called Scylla. Who was the woman?
Charybdis
1172. Signatories
What signer of the Declaration of Independence became vice president of the United States between 1789 and 1797?
John Adams
1173. Vision
Symptoms of what eye problem are similar to trying to peer through a sheet of falling water or through a frosty or fogged window?
cataracts
1174. Music Geography
What state lies immediately south of the state celebrated in the name of a musical that included this song? Oh, What a Beautiful Mornin’
Texas
1175. Homonyms
Spell the word which means 'to receive' which is a homonym for another word that means 'other than.'
accept
1176. Novels
In what novel is this found? If what Billy Pilgrim learned from the Tralfamadorians is true, that we all live forever, no matter how dead we may sometimes seem to be, I am not overjoyed.
Slaughterhouse Five
1177. Monotremes
Name the egg-laying, venomous, egg-laying, beaver-tailed, otter-footed Australian monotreme.
platypus
1178. Ancient Literature
Patroclus was killed in 'The Iliad' while wearing the armor of ...
Achilles
1179. Operas
In what opera by Giuseppe Verdi does an overweight soldier send love letters to Mistress Ford and Mistress Page?
Falstaff
1180. Mideast Rivers
Which is the western of the two major rivers that define the historic region of Mesopotamia?
Euphrates
1181. Day Length
Locations in the Southern Hemisphere have their longest day on the solstice that occurs in what month?
December
1182. Zoology
The harvestman is an arthropod belonging to what taxonomic class?
arachnid (Arachnida)
1183. Independence at Last
What archipelagic nation that had been controlled by Spain for more than three hundred years, then by the United States, and then by Japan, finally achieved its independence in 1946?
Philippines
1184. 3
Name the glacial deposit of till that resembles the silhouette of a beached whale.
drumlin
1185. Presidential Perspectives
He said, 'We in America today are nearer to the final triumph over poverty than ever before in the history of any land. The poorhouse is vanishing from among us.' Fifteen months later, those words haunted what president when the nation was plunged into the most severe, prolonged depression in its history?
Herbert Hoover
1186. Algebraic Fractions
In this fraction, the unknown cannot have what value?
(yt2)/y
1187. Thurberian Observations
According to James Thurber, you can fool too many of the people too ...
much of the time
1188. Short Stories
Stephen Crane's 'The Open Boat' tells of four men who escape a shipwreck in a dinghy. These men include the captain, an oiler, a newspaper correspondent, and who else?
the cook
1189. Colonial Towns
In 1630, settlers in the Massachusetts Bay Colony founded what town that grew into a city of 20,000 within the next fifteen years?
Boston
1190. Sultans
In 1517, the Ottoman Turks captured Egypt and Syria. Turkish armies terrorized Europe when they overran Hungary and attacked Vienna. Their leader was known as 'Suleiman the ...'
Magnificent
1191. Africa
What nation on the African continent lies closest to the island of Madagascar?
Mozambique
1192. Bequeathal Calculations
When Paris Hilton's grandfather gave 97% of his $2.3 billion fortune to charity in 2007, how much money was left for the family?
$69 million
1193. Energy Transformations
An internal combustion engine initially converts the potential chemical energy in gasoline and oxygen directly into what other form of energy?
heat
1194. Personification
Hans Brinker is a personification of what European country?
Netherlands (Holland)
1195. Monsters
What is the Greek term for an imaginary monster made of combinations of animals?
Chimera
1196. Insects
Mosquitoes, gnats, and midges belong to the order Diptera. Insects of this order have a single pair of wings and are commonly referred to collectively as what?
flies
1197. Invertebrate Anatomy
A group of up to ten similar segments behind the thorax of a crustacean makes up what region of its body?
abdomen
1198. The Moon
What is another name for dark lunar lowlands?
maria
1199. Muscular Disorders
If someone's muscles in the face, arms, legs, and back violently and involuntarily contract, that person is having a ...
convulsion (seizure, spasm)
1200. Burns
What is the collective name for the type of burns that can result from tanning booths, sunlamps, x-rays, and sunlight?
radiation burns
1201. Shared Terms
What term in journalism for a particular perspective used to write a story also describes the mathematical figure formed by two lines diverging from a common point?
angle
1202. Homophone Spelling
The burro is a mammalian quadruped. Spell the other two related homophones.
borough, burrow
1203. Trig Functions
A right triangle with legs of 5 and 12 feet has a 13-foot hypotenuse. If B is the angle between the shorter side and the hypotenuse, what is sine B?
923 (or 12/13)
1204.
What book in a stream of consciousness style to a doctor depicts the relationships of school friends, teachers, girl friends, a prostitute, siblings, and parents with Holden Caulfield?
Catcher in the Rye
1205. Wordplay
What form of wordplay is illustrated in this? Imagine an imaginary manager's manager Imagining managing an imaginary menagerie.
tongue twister
1206. Biological Prefixes
What is the meaning of the prefixes in hemodialysis and hemophiliac?
blood
1207. Science History
Some 300 years ago, he directed sunlight through a slit onto a triangular glass prism, spreading the light into a spectrum of colors. Then he placed a second prism in the spectrum, and the light rays recombined to form white light. Name this English scientist who also formulated theories of universal gravitation.
Isaac Newton
1208. Navigational Bearings
A relative bearing of 180 degrees equals what clock bearing?
6 o'clock
1209. Hydrology
While the bed load of a stream indicates rocks and boulders that bounce along its bottom and the suspended load indicates rocks and soil carried in suspension, materials carried in solution such as sodium and calcium are known as what load?
dissolved load
1210. Optics
A magnifying glass with a focal length of +3 inches is held 1 inch from a coin. What magnification does it
produce?
1211. Sculptors
What was Gutzon Borglum's greatest achievement?
Mount Rushmore
1212. Revolutionary Hostilities
1775 marked the first major engagement between colonial and British forces in Massachusetts, an encounter that has come to be known as what battle?
Battle of Bunker Hill
1213. Fantastic Creatures
To evade hunters, what creature turned itself into a Boojum?
Snark
1214. Glands
Name the ductless gland between the sternum and the heart which is essentially an organ of the growth period of life.
thymus
1215. Agriculture Vocabulary
What word rhyming with 'terrible' means that land is suitable for cultivation?
arable
1216. Rifles
Of the four types of actions used on repeating rifles, which was most common in the Old West?
lever action
1217. Nuclear Accidents
Only two nuclear accidents have been classified as level 7 events. One was the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster in Japan. Name the site of the other in the Ukraine.
Chernobyl
1218. A General's Missive
Who sent this message to President Truman? I have just received the announcement of your appointment of me as the United Nations commander of the international forces to be employed in Korea and can not fail to express to you personally my deepest thanks and appreciation for this new expression of your confidence.
Douglas MacArthur
1219. Imaginary Creatures
In the Harry Potter series, what kind of creature is a Norwegian ridgeback, Hungarian horntail, Swedish short-snout, Common Welsh green, Hebridean black, and a Chinese fireball?
dragon
1220. Forces
The strong force, the electromagnetic force, and the gravitational force are three of the four fundamental forces in nature. Name the fourth.
weak force
1221. Colonial Namesakes
What colonial town in North Carolina, now the largest city in the state, was named after George III's queen?
Charlotte
1222. Igneous Rock
While extrusive igneous rock comes from lava, intrusive igneous rock comes from what?
magma
1223. Sheet Music
On a musical staff, following the clef symbol is a number that resembles a fraction. This is known as the time ...
signature
1224. Earnings
A salesman receives a base salary of $1000.00 per month plus a 4% commission on his sales. His sales amounted to $12,000 during July. How much did he earn in July?
$1,480.00
1225. Ancient Mideast Cities
What city that existed before the time of Abraham was held by Egyptians, Israelis, Hittites, Persians, Greeks, Romans, and Ottoman Turks before it became the capital of Syria?
Damascus
1226. Dams
Grand Coulee Dam is the largest concrete dam in the U.S. It is in what state?
Washington
1227. Lunar Phases
What lunar phase is the opposite of a waning crescent?
waxing gibbous
1228. Inventors
He said, 'If I had been technically trained, I would have quit.' Name this inventor who spent eight frustrating years developing the safety razor.
King Gillette
1229. Mirrors
The earliest mirrors were pieces of polished stone, often made of what naturally occurring black volcanic glass?
obsidian
1230. Dams
Name the passages in dams that carry excess water from the reservoir over the dam to the river below.
spillways
1231. British Government
Who selects the British cabinet?
the prime minister
1232. German History
The Third Reich included the time of Hitler's dictatorship of Germany. The Second Reich was that of the empire under Bismarck. The First Reich referred to what empire?
Holy Roman Empire
1233. Colonial Unrest
The Sons of Liberty are best known for what protest in Boston in 1773?
Boston Tea Party
1234. Novels
David Guterson begins what novel with this? The accused man, Kabuo Miyamoto, sat proudly upright with a rigid grace, his palms placed softly on the defendant's table - the posture of a man who has detached himself insofar as this is possible at his own trial.
Snow Falling on Cedars
1235. Humidity
Air at 14 degrees Fahrenheit can hold 2.2 grams of water per cubic meter. If it actually holds that much moisture, its relative humidity is what percent?
100%
1236. Paintings
One of Botticelli's most famous paintings portrays the birth of what Roman goddess?
Venus
1237. Oranges
Every navel orange comes from a single tree. This mutant orange tree on a Brazilian plantation produced oranges without seeds. It was reproduced by splicing buds from that mutant to other trees through a process called ...
grafting
1238. Legends
In many versions of the Arthurian legends, the Fisher King is the keeper of what?
the Holy Grail
1239. The Eye
Name the slightly protruding clear outer cap over the iris of the eye.
cornea
1240. Gold
What silver strike is associated with Virginia City?
Comstock Lode
1241. Electricity
With what type of electrical current is its direction reversed 120 times per second?
alternating current (ac)
1242. Time Measures
What will be the next leap year after 2020?
2024
1243. Science Fiction
This is from what story by H.G. Wells? I found a little crowd of perhaps twenty people surrounding the huge hole in which the cylinder lay. The turf and gravel about it seemed charred as if by a sudden explosion.
The War of the Worlds
1244. Customs
By naval custom, the commander of any ship, whatever his or her rank, is called ...
captain
1245. Medications
Medications that are not available off the shelf require you to present what kind of order written by a doctor before you can purchase them?
prescription
1246. Acne
During what developmental period are people most prone to having acne?
adolescence
1247. Folklore
What was the object of Parsifal's quest?
Holy Grail
1248. Algebraic Expressions
Express algebraically '26 times the difference of an unknown number x and 40.'
26(40-x)
1249. Mountains
What mountains span Morocco, Algeria, and Tunisia?
Atlas Mountains
1250. Revolutions
This is about what revolution? In the early 1700s, the brothers Lombe erected in England a building 500 feet long and 6 stories high in which 26,586 wheels worked 73,726 yards of silk thread every time the water wheel went round.
Industrial Revolution
1251. Censorship
In 1557, Pope Paul IV established the 'Index of Prohibited Books,' a listing of those books that Catholics were forbidden to read. This index recognized the importance of what recent invention in spreading the Reformation?
printing press
1252. Holidays
What holiday honors the fifth-century missionary who brought Christianity to Ireland?
St. Patrick's Day
1253. Decimal Conversions
Convert the decimal numeral .0076 into a percentage.
16%
1254.
Astounding waterfalls in what country were named after the pilot, Jimmy Angel, who flew over them in 1935?
Venezuela
1255. Soil Conservation
Contour plowing is used on moderately steep slopes to discourage erosion. What farming practice with the same purpose is used on very steep slopes?
terracing
1256. Friction
What kind of friction is a baseball player likely to experience during the last moments of an attempt to steal second base?
sliding friction
1257. Colorful Titles
The missing word in this title of a novel by Zane Grey is also in the title of what work by Alice Walker? Riders of the ---- Sage
The Color Purple
1258. Homemade Weapons
A weapon consisting of a gasoline-filled glass bottle with a rag was named after what Soviet foreign minister?
Molotov
1259. Medical Examinations
An arthrogram is an x-ray technique for examining the interior of what skeletal structures?
joints
1260. Oceanic Currents
The Canary Current is adjacent to what two continents?
Europe, Africa
1261. Sinkings
This is about what ship? In 1915, one of the Kaiser's submarines sank a British liner killing more than a thousand, among them 128 American vacationers on their way to Liverpool.
Lusitania
1262. Story Quotes
In what story is the spirit of the leading character broken when he reads this while aboard a ship? Breathes there a man with a soul so dead Who never to himself hath said, 'This is my own - my native land.'
The Man Without a Country
1263. Forest Fire Fighting
The fire retardant dropped by aircraft onto forest fires is generally known as ...
slurry
1264. Linguistics
At the outset of the 21st century, with more the 1.2 billion speakers, the most-used language in the world was ...
Chinese (Mandarin)
1265.
Mops, ovals, bamboo, flats, synthetic filament, and camel hair are types of what implements used by painters?
brushes
1266. 1
What resilient material was invented by professor Ned Brainard in the 1961 movie, 'The Absent Minded Professor'?
flubber
1267. South American Rivers
The Parana River of South America drains part of Brazil before it flows along or through what other two countries?
Paraguay, Argentina
1268. India History
The town of Bucephala in India was named for what Macedonian's horse?
Alexander the Great's
1269. Wordplay
This illustrates what kind of ludicrous statement named after an island in the North Atlantic? Talk about thin! Well, you're thin, and I'm thin, but he's as thin as the pair of us put together!
Irish bull
1270. The Electoral College
Prior to the adoption of the 23rd Amendment, citizens in what part of the U.S. could not vote in presidential elections?
Washington D.C.
1271. African Mammals
What herbivorous mammal with a thick hairless body and short legs inhabits the lakes and rivers of Africa?
hippopotamus
1272. Archaeology
What are the three ages in the three-age system of archaeology?
stone age, bronze age, iron age
1273. Pronouns
What is the third person, singular, masculine, reflexive pronoun?
himself
1274. Unnatural Plants
What horticultural practice makes it possible for one tree to bear several different kinds of fruit?
grafting
1275. Paintings
These are titles of what kind of paintings? Table, Napkin, and Fruit The Vase with 12 Sunflowers Strawberries
still life
1276. Conifers
Because conifer needles contain a certain substance, when they fall, they tend to make the soil beneath them inhospitable to other plants. In terms of pH, the soil becomes ...
acidic
1277. Bearings
Identify the soft, durable alloy used on shaft bearings in engines.
Babbitt metal
1278. The Great Pacificator
The 19th-century political leader, Henry Clay, is remembered for his attempts to keep the U.S. united despite what sharp ongoing controversy of the time?
slavery
1279. 4
An airliner flying directly from Grand Rapids, Michigan to Ottawa, Ontario would fly over which Great Lake?
Lake Huron
1280. Cases
To what case in 1919 was Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr. referring when he said this? The question is whether the words are of such a nature as to create a clear and present danger that they will bring about the substantive evils that Congress has a right to prevent.
Schenck v. U.S.
1281. Equations
Solve this equation. 2x squared + 8x = 0
x = 0 (or x = -4)
1282. Vessels
What ancient Chinese sailing vessel that is still in use today has these characteristics? multiple masts battened, square sails interior bulkheads high poop deck stern-mounted rudder
junk
1283. Perimeters
What is the ratio of the perimeters of two equilateral triangles if the sides are 8 and 20?
2to5
1284. Island Independence
In 1973, the Bahamas gained its independence from what European country?
Great Britain
1285. Horror Tales
In Edgar Allan Poe's 'The Black Cat,' whose body did the murderer entomb in a cellar vault?
his wife's
1286. Dog Myths
What bright star was named after the faithful dog of Orion?
Sirius
1287. Religion
Who supposedly ascended into heaven from the site of the Dome of the Rock in Jerusalem?
Mohammed
1288. Musical Homonyms
What term for a melody or a solo can also indicate a colorless, odorless, tasteless gaseous mixture containing 78 percent nitrogen, 21 percent oxygen, and some other gasses?
air
1289. Legendary Allusions
What is the last word in this verse by John Masefield? We fly a banner all of black, With scarlet Skull and Boneses, And every merchantman we take We send to Davey ...
Jones's
1290. Glues
What is another term for the hardening of adhesives?
curing
1291. Political Persuasion
Reminiscent of the mandible, what persuasive technique involves pressuring lawmakers through private discussions and arm-twisting?
jawboning
1292. Algebraic Factoring
Factor this expression. 12(x squared) - 17x + 6 - (dx -
3)
1293. Animal Villains
What character created by Rudyard Kipling became an instant villain when he proclaimed that the man cub, Mowgli, was rightfully his to kill?
Shere Khan
1294. Quicksand
Quicksand occurs when sand grains are separated by
water
1295. Seaside Nations
The geographically largest country adjacent to the Mediterranean is ...
Algeria
1296. Soils
What adjective describes soil with a pH of 8.5 or higher?
alkali (sodic)
1297. Indian Wars
The major engagements against the Indians in the Creek War were fought by Tennesseans under what general who later became U.S. president?
Andrew Jackson
1298. People Classifications
Gentiles are those who are not of what faith?
Judaism (Jewish, or Mormon)
1299. Number Conversions
Express the base-6 number 53 as a decimal number.
33
1300. lons
What is the term for any anode-seeking ion?
anion
1301. Short Stories
This quote is from what story? You fancy me mad. Madmen know nothing. But you should have seen me. You should have seen how wisely I proceeded - with what caution - with what foresight.
The Tell-Tale Heart
1302. Performing Groups
It is the oldest of America's continuing musical organizations. Established by an act of Congress under the signature of President John Adams, it has played for every president except George Washington. Name this band led for many years by John Philip Sousa.
Marine Band
1303. Freezing
An increase in pressure has what effect on the freezing temperature of most substances?
raises it
1304. Weather Fronts
Cold fronts usually move along the ground at a faster rate than warm fronts. What type of front results when a cold air mass overtakes a warm front?
occluded front
1305. Light Transmission
What is the opposite of opaque?
transparent
1306. Explorers
The Spanish explorer Hernando de Alarcon is credited with discovering what river of the American Southwest?
Colorado River
1307. Baryons
A baryon is a subatomic particle whose decay products always include what other subatomic particle?
proton
1308. Parodied Proverbs
What vertebrate is named in the original proverb of which this is a parody? Give a man a fire and he's warm for a day, but set him on fire and he's warm for the rest of his life.
fish
1309. Literature
What are the first words in this passage by John Donne? Every man is a piece of the continent - a part of the main. If a clod be washed away by the sea Europe is less. Any man's death diminishes me.
No man is an island.
1310. Legends
What did 18th-century sailors call the evil spirit at the bottom of the sea?
Davy Jones
1311. National Symbols
What unfinished architectural form is on the Great Seal of the United States?
pyramid
1312. Sentence Errors
What one word is incorrectly used in this line? Of the two ridiculously expensive green sports cars, this is clearly the best.
best
1313. Plants
This is about what plant? When an insect brushes the trigger hairs on the edge of the leaves, the leaves close like clam shells.
Venus's flytrap
1314. Fiction
This book depicts a man with living tattoos that predict the future. Name this work by Ray Bradbury.
The Illustrated Man
1315. Maps
What category of maps does not show physical features or roads and may just indicate national borders, state boundaries, and major cities?
political map
1316. Economics
One consequence of the Exxon Valdez oil spill was that many consumers joined together and refused to purchase any Exxon products. Name this kind of protest.
boycott
1317. Pollution
What type of water pollution is caused by the disposal of waste heat from industry or power generation?
thermal (heat) pollution
1318. Theft
What is a legal synonym term for theft?
larceny
1319. Economics
What term in business refers to the lowering or reduction of a price?
discount
1320. Courageous Captains
What British captain commanded three voyages to the Pacific and circumnavigated the globe twice?
James Cook
1321. Earthquakes
Name the scale which measures earthquake magnitude on a logarithmic scale.
Richter scale
1322. The Cabinet
Which head of an executive cabinet office does not have the title of secretary?
attorney general
1323. Fleets
What was the color of the squadron of 16 battleships sent by Theodore Roosevelt on a round-the-world tour in 1907?
white
1324. Amendments
These phrases are from what U.S. constitutional amendment? -nature and cause of the accusation -speedy and public trial -impartial jury -assistance of counsel for his defense
6th amendment
1325. Extremophiles
What is extreme in the environments in which psychrophiles and cryophiles thrive?
cold
1326. Opera
What title of a Wagnerian opera is a synonym for 'apocalypse'?
Gotterdammerung
1327. Politics
Presidential nominees to fill positions in what two branches of government are subject to senatorial approval?
executive, judicial
1328. Autobiographies
In 1953, Charles Lindbergh wrote a Pulitzer Prize-winning autobiography entitled 'The Spirit of' what?
St. Louis
1329. International Negotiations
In 2009, Bill Clinton directly negotiated with what country to secure the release of two American journalists after several months of their detention?
North Korea
1330. Root Words
What does the root word mean in necromancer, necrophobia, and necrosis?
corpse (dead body, death)
1331. Tribe Fatalities
The two diseases that killed the greatest numbers of Comanches were cholera and what other?
smallpox (or measles)
1332. Birds
The first California condors to be released outside of California were set free in what state in 1996?
Arizona
1333. Physical Properties
What adjective describes a solid that can have its shape changed to a thin sheet by blows from a hammer?
malleable
1334. Ecological Series
What is the next level in this ecological series? individual population community ecosystem biome
biosphere
1335. Crimes
What crime is associated with Julio Iglesias’ father, Frank Sinatra's son, J. Paul Getty's grandson, Aldo Moro, Adolph Coors III, Patty Hearst, and Charles Lindbergh II?
kidnapping
1336. Pronouns
What category of pronouns is illustrated in these lines? What happened next? Whose are those freckles? Who knows where Buster went crabbing? Which is the cage for Nicholas?
interrogative pronouns
1337. The Sun
The maximum duration of what phenomenon during a solar eclipse is 7.67 minutes?
totality
1338. Employees
Each employee took an oath swearing to remain sober and not use profanity, gamble, treat horses cruelly, or interfere with the rights of Indians. Each received a Bible, a pair of Colt revolvers, and $125 per month. These mailmen worked for what company?
pony express
1339. The Carter Presidency
An agreement involving what two nations is considered Jimmy Carter's greatest achievement as president?
Egypt, Israel
1340. Naval Training
In 1845, the United States Naval Academy was founded in what Maryland city?
Annapolis
1341. Colonial Trades
What did colonial milliners make?
hats
1342. Forms of Journalism
Tabloids carry on the tradition of what kind of sensationalist reporting associated with the circulation battles between Joseph Pulitzer and William Randolph Hearst?
yellow journalism
1343. Life
Name the structure that contains these components. mitochondria vacuoles ribosomes chromosomes
cell
1344. The Atlantic Seaboard
Name the narrow strip of barrier islands off the coast of North Carolina that includes Cape Hatteras, Cape Fear, and Cape Lookout.
Outer Banks
1345. Rules Rules Rules
Whose rules of order govern formal meetings?
Robert's
1346. Speeches
Nikita Khrushchev's 1956 speech revealing Stalin's crimes had the effect in the United States of severely weakening what third party?
Communist
1347. Electricity
When an electrical conductor is moved in a magnetic field, a current will flow in it. This generation of electromotive force in a closed circuit is called ...
induction
1348. Motion in Space
A circular motion about an external point is called an
orbit (revolution, orbital revolution)
1349. Onset of War
World War II effectively began in 1939 when Germany invaded what Eastern European country?
Poland
1350. Red Hair
This is a line from what novel? 'You'd find it easier to be bad than good if you had red hair,' said Anne reproachfully. 'People who haven't red hair don't know what trouble is.
Anne of Green Gables
1351. Prisms
A prism 20 inches high has as its base an equilateral octagon measuring 4 inches on a side. What is its lateral area?
640 square inches
1352. Radiation
Overexposure to sunlight, radiation from nuclear weapons, or radiation from x-rays may cause what structural changes within genes or chromosomes?
mutations
1353. Spindles
Name the line around which a spindle rotates.
axis
1354. Dinosaurs
Dinosaurs that were capable of walking on two feet are described as being bi-what?
bipedal
1355. Bouncing
A rubber or steel ball dropped on a concrete surface will bounce. What physical property is responsible for this?
elasticity
1356. Time
A solar day is the period of the Earth's rotation with respect to the Sun. A sidereal day is the period of the Earth's rotation with respect to the ...
stars
1357. 1
What kind of mathematical set is the set of multiples of 31?
infinite set
1358. Town Names
In what state are there cities named after such people as Davey Jackson, Jacques La Ramee, Philip Sheridan, Caspar Collins, and Weston Gillette?
Wyoming
1359. Explorers
What English navigator made his last voyage to a region west of Quebec on the Discovery?
Henry Hudson
1360. Chemical Bonds
How many covalent bonds can be formed by a univalent atom?
one
1361. Muscle Abbreviations
'Lats' is the abbreviation for what muscles?
latissimus dorsi
1362. Injuries
A charley horse is an injury affecting what body system?
muscle
1363. Neurons
What nerve runs from the spinal cord down the back of each thigh?
sciatic nerve
1364. The Great Basin
What state occupies most of the Great Basin?
Nevada
1365. Mystical Geology
Although there is no evidence to suggest this practice actually works, some people claim to be able to locate groundwater by using a forked stick. Name this practice.
dousing (divining, water witching)
1366. Modifiers
What is the predicate adjective in this line? You are happy when skies are gray.
happy
1367. Oxygen
Oxygen has been added to the Earth's atmosphere as a result of two processes. One is photochemical dissociation. Name the other.
photosynthesis
1368. Literary Weddings
In the novel, 'These Happy Golden Years,' who does Almanzo Wilder marry?
Laura Ingalls
1369. The Mafia
In relation to the Mafia, the phrase 'capo di tutti capi' means 'boss of' what?
bosses
1370. Circumnavigation
The first person to circumnavigate both Tasmania and the Australian mainland was Matthew who?
Flinders
1371. Thrust
Thrust depends on the acceleration of the substance passing out of the exhaust nozzle and what other factor?
the mass of the substance
1372. Pitch
The higher the pitch of a sound, the ---- its wavelength.
shorter
1373. Congress
What is the total number of legislators in both houses of U.S. Congress?
535
1374. Northern Habitats
What structures incorporating domes are associated with Inuits?
igloos
1375. Inhalation Assistance
Name the device that mixes a drug with water vapor to produce a medicated mist suitable for inhalation.
nebulizer (atomizer)
1376. Mirrors
Mirror images are not reversed right to left. Actually they are reversed front to what?
back
1377. Caribbean Isles
Which of the two main divisions of the Antilles is closer to the South American mainland?
Lesser Antilles
1378. German Biology
Translate the first four words of this German sequence into their English equivalents. Reich, Stamm, Klasse, Ordnung, Familie, Gattung, Art
kingdom, phylum, class, order
1379. Whale Behavior
Sometimes whales leap head first out of the water, hitting the surface again with a huge splash. Name this behavior.
breaching
1380. Star Proximity
If the star closest to Earth, apart from the Sun, were to explode right now, we would not know it for about
how many years?
1381. City Namesakes
What New Zealand city was named after Arthur Wellesley, the victor at the Battle of Waterloo?
Wellington
1382. Supplies
As much as 90 percent of the gunpowder used by Americans in the American Revolution came from what country?
France
1383. Regulations
The minimal acceptable construction standards in a community are encompassed in what code?
building code
1384. Battery Capacity
At room temperature, a battery rated at 100 ampere hours can deliver five amps over a period of how many hours?
20
1385. Colossal Constructions
The Aswan High Dam is in the southern part of what country?
Egypt
1386. Economic Divisions
While the richest countries are called first world nations, what is the corresponding phrase for the world's poorest nations?
third world countries
1387. Geology
What is element is in diamonds and anthracite?
carbon
1388. Collapses
What started in the year cited in this passage? Spiritually and morally, civilization collapsed on August 1, 1914, the civilization which with all its shortcomings, did give more satisfaction to more people than any other yet evolved.
World War |
1389. Bones
Name any of the three main bones of the arm.
humerus, radius, ulna
1390.
If the big bang theory is correct, the energy left from this primordial event should be spread out throughout the universe. What adjective describes this type of radiation?
background
1391. Alcoholic Beverages
If a bottle of gin is labeled 84 proof, it contains what percent alcohol by volume?
42
1392. Chronic Diseases
Asthma is a chronic disease of what body system?
respiratory system
1393. Spiders
On what section of a black widow's body can you see its red hourglass shape?
abdomen
1394. Government Agencies
What is the abbreviation for an agency of the U.S. Department of Labor responsible for developing health and safety standards for places of employment?
OSHA
1395. Arabian Nights
Name the Persian woodcutter from the 'Arabian Nights' who happened upon a thieves' cave filled with riches.
Ali Baba
1396. Stars
Alpha Ari and Beta Ari are the two brightest stars in what zodiacal constellation?
Aries
1397. Volcanoes
More than half of the world's active volcanoes encircle the Pacific in a belt of volcanic activity called the what?
Ring of Fire
1398. Digestive Physiology
The sphincter at the base of the stomach controls the release of the gastric contents into which division of the small intestine?
duodenum
1399. Poems
This is from what poem? He has sounded forth the trumpet that shall never call retreat; He is sifting out the hearts of men before His judgment-seat: Oh, be swift, my soul, to answer Him! be jubilant, my feet! Our God is marching on.
Battle Hymn of the Republic
1400. Brevity
What word could be omitted in this line without loss of meaning? She was eager to ladle chocolate onto the
ants and told her assistants to hurry up.
1401. Bivalve Mollusks
Name the beautiful concretions with brilliant luster produced within the shells of certain mollusks.
pearls
1402. Coral
The world's largest coral formation is off Australia's northeast coast. Name it.
Great Barrier Reef
1403. Orbits
If a satellite's orbital velocity exactly matches the rotational velocity of a planet such that the satellite appears to hang motionless above one position of the planet's surface, the orbit is described as being what?
geosynchronous (geostationary)
1404. Medians
Find the length of the median of a trapezoid having bases of 20 and 40 feet.
30 feet
1405. Polygons
The areas of two similar polygons are 25 and 81 square feet. The length of a side of the larger polygon is 72 feet. What is the length of the corresponding side of the smaller polygon?
40 feet
1406. Composers
These composers all share what nationality? Engelbert Humperdinck Robert Schumann Richard Wagner George Handel Johannes Brahms
German
1407. Ancient Prophesy
According to legend, Alexander the Great fulfilled the ancient prophesy about ruling Asia by dealing with what knot?
Gordian knot
1408. Plant Anatomy
Each of the colorful, showy parts of a plant's corolla is called a ...
petal
1409. Decisions
This decision related to what country? The decision committed the United States irrevocably to a war that would drag on for 9 more years, take 3 million Americans abroad, cost the lives of 58,000 of them, and deeply divide the country.
South Vietnam (or Vietnam)
1410. Opera at the Movies
In the movie, 'Apocalypse Now,' what song from a Wagnerian opera is played through speakers on helicopters during an attack on a Vietnamese village that has a beach suitable for surfing?
Ride of the Valkyries
1411. Weathering
Differential weathering is obviously illustrated by what national monument in Wyoming?
Devil's Tower
1412. Explorers
On an alphabetical list of land masses explored by James Cook, which is first?
Australia
1413. Roman Architecture
Construction of domes in ancient Rome was greatly facilitated by the development of what building material consisting of sand, gravel, and mortar?
concrete
1414. Numeration in Fiction
In what science fiction tale does the decimal equivalent of the binary number 0101010 have particular significance?
The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy
1415.
The sudden and sharp increase in aerodynamic drag experienced by aircraft as they approach the speed of sound is called the ...
sound barrier
1416. Used Water
Wastewater from washing machines, showers, bathtubs, and sinks is called what kind of water?
greywater
1417. Twain's Tales
Who is the central character in the Mark Twain story that includes this line? He had discovered a great law of human action, without knowing it, namely, that in order to make a man or a boy covet a thing, it is only necessary to make the thing difficult to attain.
Tom Sawyer
1418. Warships
In 1813, Captain Oliver Perry began to build warships on which of the Great Lakes?
Lake Erie
1419. Physiology
What is the general physiological term for these conditions? sluggishness, weariness, exhaustion, languor, sleepiness, tiredness, debilitation
fatigue
1420. 3
These African cities are adjacent to what body of water? Dakar, Freetown, Luanda, Rabat, Monrovia
Atlantic Ocean
1421. Official Records
What adjective indicates that the words in an official transcript are exactly those originally spoken?
verbatim
1422. Telescopes
What type of telescope is used in the search for advanced extraterrestrial life?
radio telescope
1423. City Names
By what name do people in America know the city referred to in The Netherlands as 'Den Haag'?
The Hague
1424. Presidential Initiatives
The attorney general was asked to bring the first antitrust suit aimed at dissolving Northern Securities, a railroad holding company, by what president in 1902?
Theodore Roosevelt
1425. Algebra
Simplify the following. (12(a squared)b) divided by (3a)
4ab
1426. Rommel
Defenders of Tobruk against Rommel had what nickname?
Desert Rats
1427. Regional Clothing
Name the knee-length skirt made of tartan wool with deep pleats worn as part of the dress for the men in the Scottish highlands.
kilt
1428. Fictional Towns
In the Harry Potter series, what is the only settlement in Britain inhabited solely by magical beings?
Hogsmeade
1429. Animal Classification
These creatures all belong to what class of vertebrates? armadillo, flying fox, anteater, pika, narwhal
mammal
1430. Vocabulary
What single word can have these meanings? -a filming technique -a Greek mythical character -a metal dish
pan
1431. Feuds
In what part of the United Kingdom did feuds occur involving the Macpherson Clan against the Davidson Clan and the Campbells against the MacDonalds?
Scotland
1432. Humanities
What is the collective term for Sikhism, Taoism, and Zoroastrianism?
religions (philosophies)
1433. Science Fiction
This is from what story by H.G. Wells? He asked, 'Can an instantaneous cube exist?' Filby became pensive. 'Clearly, any real body must have extension in four directions. It must have length, breadth, thickness, and duration.'
The Time Machine
1434. Tubes
Name this special tube. One end of the tube in placed in a tank. The other, longer end providing an exit is placed below the surface of the liquid in the tank.
siphon
1435. Poetry
This illustrates what form of poetry? Banderas sword drawn Parries with furious grace Flubs mark of Zorro.
haiku
1436. Circulatory System
The two types of fluids that move through the circulatory system include blood and what watery, clear to yellowish substance that contains white blood cells?
lymph
1437. Radiometric Dating
You have a sample of rock. One-fourth of your sample is parent material and three-fourths of your sample is daughter material. If the half-life of the parent material is 10,000 years, how many years did it take for the daughter material in the sample to form?
20,000
1438. Planes
What adjective describes two distinct planes that never intersect?
parallel
1439. Literary Conventions
What is the accepted convention about the hero's hat in tales from the Old West genre?
white hat
1440. Rhyme
This is the rhyme scheme for what kind of usually humorous verse? aabba
limerick
1441. Ecology
The modification of a living organism to help it adjust to the conditions of its environment is called ...
adaptation
1442. Curious Writings
This is what kind of literature? Here lies a father of 29. There would have been more But he didn't have time.
epitaph
1443. Anatomy
The backbone or spine is also known as what column?
vertebral column
1444. Malapropisms
What word should have been used in this statement? In relation to the warehouse fire, authorities suspect arsenic.
arson
1445. Gold Mining
The California gold rush began with the discovery of what kind of gold in streambed sands and gravels where the gold had eroded out of hard rock vein deposits?
placer gold
1446. Astronomers
Whose calculations concerning the orbits of 24 comets enabled him to predict accurately the return of a comet in 1758 which had last been seen in 1607?
Edmond Halley
1447. Employment Idioms
When a worker informs his employer that he intends to leave his job in a couple of weeks, what does he give?
notice
1448. Carnivores
What is French for 'wolf'?
loup
1449. Sculptures
In 1972, Michigan sculptor Charles Cooper completed his eight-foot bronze statue of what legendary character that now stands in Memorial Park above the east portal of the Big Bend Tunnel near Talcott, West Virginia?
John Henry
1450. Grammar Mood
Begin your sentence with 'if' and express 'I am' in the subjunctive mood.
If |be
1451. British Literature
These lines are from what famous 17th-century English treatise? -I love any discourse of rivers, and fish and fishing. -And for winter fly-fishing it is as useful as an almanac out of date. -No man is born an artist nor an angler. -God never did make a more calm, quiet, innocent recreation than angling.
The Compleat Angler
1452. Sports
In 2011, the International Olympic Committee announced that the 2018 Winter Olympics will be held in Pyeonchang in what country?
South Korea
1453. Amendments
Which amendment protects an individual from furnishing testimony or evidence that may be used in a legal proceeding against himself?
5th
1454. Simplification
Simplify 7/15 + 1/15 + 2/15.
2/3
1455. Quotes
He said, 'What luck for rulers that men do not think.' Name this man who committed suicide in a bunker in 1945.
Adolf Hitler
1456. Competitions of Olde
In what ancient competition were these prizes originally awarded? first prize - laurel wreath second prize - wild olive wreath third prize - palm wreath
Olympics
1457. Nash Verse
What word completes this couplet by Ogden Nash? A child need not be very clever To learn that 'Later, dear' means ...
never
1458. Scientific Laws
Which of Newton's laws indicates that the Moon should travel in a straight line?
4st law (law of inertia)
1459. Abbreviations
Spell the Latin words for which the abbreviation 'etc.' stands.
et cetera
1460. Legislation
What phrase, literally meaning a container holding a type of meat, describes legislation benefiting a representative's own district?
pork barrel
1461. Surprising Questions
Whose minister of foreign affairs posed this question to Robert Livingston and James Monroe? What would you give for the whole of Louisiana?
Napoleon
1462. Journalism
How would Teddy Roosevelt have classified these journalists? -Greg Palast who wrote about the Exxon Valdez -Morgan Spurlock who wrote about health problems related to McDonald's fast food -Gary Weiss who wrote about the mob on Wall Street -Carl Bernstein and Bob Woodward who wrote about Watergate
muckrakers
1463. Ancient Literature
Who uttered these words in a Greek story? Remember all I've told you. Above all, remember you must not fly too high or too low. If you fly too high, the heat of the sun will melt the wax and your wings will fall apart.
Daedalus
1464. Compass Directions
What is the exact opposite of a compass heading of 275 degrees?
95 degrees
1465. Sinkings
In 1919, almost the entire fleet of what country was intentionally scuttled by their crews?
Germany
1466. Geologic Evidence
Alfred Wegener found the plant fossil Glossopteris in rocks of South America, Africa, India, and Australia. He said this was evidence that these land masses were once joined as a single landmass that he called ...
Pangaea
1467. Colorful Congressmen
What legendary member of the House of Representatives said this on his way to Congress in 1827? I'm fresh from the backwoods, half-horse, half-alligator, a little touched with the snapping turtle. I can wade the Mississippi, leap the Ohio, ride upon a streak of lightning, and slip without a scratch down a honey locust tree.
Davy Crockett
1468. Silly Mottoes
Add the final word to this translation of the pseudo-Latin motto, 'Quando omni flunkus, moritati.' When all else fails, play ...
dead
1469. Force
The U.S.S. Missouri was a very heavy steel battleship but she floated quite nicely because she displaced enough water so that what force of the water remained greater than the weight of the ship?
buoyant force
1470. Chemistry History
Gallium, scandium, and germanium were discovered within 20 years of their prediction by what Russian chemist?
Dmitri Mendeleev
1471. Drugs
Drugs that inhibit the effect of histamines are called what?
antihistamines
1472. Danish Navigators
Vitus Bering guided Russian sailors to the North American coast in 1741. He died on the return voyage from what deficiency disease?
scurvy
1473. Plant Life
Derived from the name of a Roman goddess, what is the collective name for all the different kinds of plants growing in a given region?
flora
1474. Military Men
After fighting in World War II and Korea, he commanded U.S. forces in Vietnam. Name this former army chief of staff after whom the M1 tank is named.
Creighton Abrams
1475. Cool Science Fiction
This line from a Kurt Vonnegut story is about the effects of what substance? There were no smells. There was no movement. Every step I took made a gravelly squeak in blue-white frost. And every squeak was echoed loudly. The season of locking was over. The Earth was locked up tight.
ice-nine
1476. Military Deployments
In 2014, the U.S. had the greatest number of military personnel stationed in what European country?
Germany
1477. System Functions
Which body system performs these major functions? -retaining of body fluids -maintenance of body homeostasis -protection of the body from disease and external injury
integumentary system
1478. Orbits
What is the shape of the Moon's orbit?
elliptical
1479.
What is the breed of horse bred originally by the Nez Perce Indians?
appaloosa
1480. Spiders
What is the shape of the unique red marking on the underside of a black widow spider?
hourglass
1481. 5
While deductions from correct premises are always 100% probable, with what category of reasoning are the conclusions always less than 100% probable?
induction
1482. Rough Seas
A submarine in water with waves 60 feet high and 120 feet long would have to be at least how many feet deep to avoid the effects of the storm above?
60 feet
1483. Homophones
Spell the homophone for legendary Moslem spirits that sounds the same as the name for an alcoholic beverage.
jinn (or djinn)
1484. Folksong History
According to the lyrics of the folksong, Clementine's father was a member of what group that took part in the California gold rush?
forty-niners
1485. Ornithology
What structure on a bird consists of its maxilla and mandible?
beak (bill, rostrum)
1486. Rousing Music
What are the first three words in the John Philip Sousa march title that ends with 'Forever'?
Stars and Stripes
1487. Art Materials
Drawing sticks made by binding pigment with gum, oil, or wax are called ...
crayons
1488. Cold War Assessments
Starting in 1957, what phrase did U.S. authorities use for the assumed disparity between the number and power of ballistic weapons held by the U.S. and the Soviet Union?
missile gap
1489. Volcanoes
When gas-charged lava is blown violently into the air, it breaks into small fragments that solidify and fall around the vent to form a circular mound known as what kind of cone?
cinder cone
1490. Investment
Reminiscent of a mammalian quadruped, what kind of market occurred after the stock market crash of 1929?
bear market
1491. Arthropods
Found in many but not all arthropods, what kind of eye is composed of a large number of small, closely packed ommatidia, each with its own lens and nerve receptors?
compound eye
1492. Songs
What is the last word in this line from a song? Whoopee ti yi yo, git along, little ...
dogies
1493. Mississippi Senators
What Mississippi senator became president of the Confederate States of America?
Jefferson Davis
1494. Sentence Corrections
Change one word in this sentence to make it read correctly. The cause for all the commotion and confusion were not obvious.
change 'were' to 'was'
1495. Metals
Lodestone largely consists of what metallic element?
iron
1496. Dunes
Sand particles blown up the windward side of a dune come to rest on the other side. What three-letter adjective indicates that other side?
lee
1497. Voltaire
Complete this statement by Voltaire. The best is the enemy of the ...
good
1498. Comic Books
Marjane Satrapi's autobiographical graphic novel, 'Persepolis,' is about her growing up during the Islamic Revolution in what country?
Iran
1499. Latin America
If you alphabetically arrange Central American countries on the Caribbean, which is first?
Belize
1500. Inventions
The folding fan was invented in the seventh century in what island country?
Japan
1501. Machines
What kind of machine converts mechanical energy into electrical energy by rotating an armature, which contains conductors, through a magnetic field?
generator (dynamo, alternator)
1502. Political Power
The African National Congress is the most powerful political party in what country?
South Africa
1503. Homographs
What homograph can indicate either common tools of loggers or lines about which an object is symmetrical?
axes
1504. Compass Directions
In which cardinal direction from Egypt is Saudi Arabia?
east
1505. Birds
What is the male version of a peahen?
peacock
1506. Political Ideology
What form of Marxist communism was named for a Chinese political leader who died in 1976?
Maoism
1507. Binary Baseball
Express as a binary numeral the number of outs in an entire inning of baseball.
110
1508. Mesopotamia
Name the western Mesopotamian river.
Euphrates River
1509. Phase Changes
Name the process by which a standing liquid becomes a gas.
evaporation
1510. Hot Spots
The temperature of what part of the Earth may be as high as 6600 degrees C, even hotter than the Sun's surface?
core
1511. Wars
What U.S. war involved three campaigns headed by Zachary Taylor, Stephen Kearny, and Winfield Scott?
Mexican War
1512. Hawaiian Geography
The Hawaiian islands are next to the which tropic?
Tropic of Cancer
1513. Literary Quotes
This is in what book by Izaak Walton? Nay, the trout is not lost, for pray take notice that no man can lose what he never had.
The Compleat Angler
1514. Gravity
The value of the force of gravity varies according to the distance of a body from the center of the ...
Earth
1515. Taxation
The IRS selects about one of every hundred personal income tax returns for a thorough review called a tax
audit
1516. Chlorophyll
What process can only occur in the presence of chlorophyll molecules?
photosynthesis
1517. Life Functions
Ingestion is a synonym for what?
eating (consuming, devouring, etc.)
1518. Fuels
When plants died in great swamps 300 million years ago, they fell into the water and sank. Great thick layers of the dead plants accumulated. In time, these thick layers rotted and formed a spongy brown material called what?
peat
1519. Heavenly / Bods
What kind of heavenly bodies are these? Tempel, Tuttle, Brorsen, Encke, Halley
comets
1520. Oil Drilling
A person drilling for oil in unexplored areas are referred to by what name reminiscent of a feline?
wildcatter
1521. Perimeters
What is the perimeter of a quadrilateral with sides of 2p + q, p + 3q, 3p + q, and 3p + 2q?
9p + 7q
1522. Clouds
A rotating, cone-shaped column of air that extends downward from the base of a thunderstorm but does not reach the ground is known as what kind of cloud?
funnel cloud
1523. Novels
In what Sinclair Lewis novel, a kind of 'Pilgrim's Progress' for the medical profession, must a young doctor fight his entire life against various temptations to abandon his ideas for wealth and fame?
Arrowsmith
1524. Churchill
When Winston Churchill said, 'Never in the field of human conflict was so much owed by so many to so few,' he was speaking about members of what British military organization?
RAF (Royal Air Force)
1525. Mineral Formation
As ancient seas dried out, minerals such as calcite, halite, gypsum, and sylvite were formed. What is the collective name for such minerals?
evaporites
1526.
One number is three times another and their sum is 48. Find the numbers.
12, 36
1527. Time Travel
In 'The Time Machine,' Weena dies in what kind of calamity?
forest fire
1528.
A lever is a simple machine used to change direction, gain force, or gain ...
speed
1529. Matter
What is the term for any liquid or gaseous material that can flow?
fluid
1530. Organizations
A successful American organization was chartered in 1910 by William D. Boyce, a Chicago publisher who took the idea from a movement founded in 1908 by the Englishman Robert Baden-Powell. Name the organization.
Boy Scouts
1531. Constitutional Vocabulary
What word meaning 'disregarded' or 'violated' is in the amendment about the right to bear arms?
infringed
1532. Dance
What French name for an early German dance in 2/2 or 4/4 time of moderate tempo rhymes with such words as 'fatherland' and 'ampersand'?
allemande
1533. Science Fiction
In John Campbell's 'The Thing,' the alien can take on the form of different people and even different animals. Name this fictional ability.
shapeshifting
1534. Terrorism
In 2013, more than 60 people were killed in what Kenyan city by terrorists who stormed and took over a shopping mall?
Nairobi
1535. Exponent Factoring
Factor x to the fifth + 3(x squared).
X squared(x cubed + 3)
1536. Venomous Snakes
Name any country in which death adders are native.
Australia, Indonesia, Papua New Guinea
1537. Star Patterns
What constellation of the Northern Hemisphere was named after Perseus! wife?
Andromeda
1538. 4
When a force, F, acts perpendicular to a surface with an area, A, what is the formula for pressure?
P = FIA
1539. Economics
What economic concept is suggested by this quote? There are plenty of good 5-cent cigars in the country. The trouble is they cost a quarter. What this country really needs is a good 5-cent nickel.
inflation
1540. Wildlife
The ibex is an immediate relative of what common domesticated ruminant?
goat
1541. D-Day
Which beach that was part of the D-day invasion of Normandy was named for a Roman goddess?
Juno
1542. Fish
Anadromous fish spend most of their lives in what kind of water?
saltwater
1543. Romance in the Colonies
He wrote, 'Where there's marriage without love, there will be love without marriage.' Who published this statement in his almanac?
Benjamin Franklin
1544. Parks
The northwesternmost part of Yellowstone National Park is in the same state as what other national park?
Glacier
1545. Snakes
The four venomous snakes that cause most cases of snakebite in India are the common krait, Russell's viper, the saw-scaled viper, and what other snake characterized by its ability to expand the skin of its neck to form a flattened hood?
cobra (Indian cobra)
1546. Losing in Louisiana
In contrast to the 210 American casualties, nearly 1800 British soldiers were killed or wounded during what battle that occurred two weeks after the signing of the Treaty of Ghent?
Battle of New Orleans
1547. Medicinal Compounds
Medically, these can all be used as what kind of agent? boric acid, ethanol, iodine, hydrogen peroxide, mercurochrome, isopropanol, phenol
antiseptics (antimicrobials, antibacterials)
1548.
Which character in 'Alice in Wonderland' spoke these words? Not the same thing a bit! Why, you might just as well say that 'I see what I eat' is the same thing as 'I eat what I see.'
Mad Hatter
1549. Medieval Geography
A crusader on a ship in 1189 traveling from Crete to Cyprus crossed what sea?
Mediterranean
1550. Polygons
What polyhedron has a polygon as one of its faces while its other lateral faces are triangles meeting at a vertex?
pyramid
1551. Science Fiction
In what Ray Bradbury story is getting to a Sun Dome the goal of astronauts who crash on Venus during a perpetual rainstorm?
The Long Rain
1552. The Sea Floor
What adjective describes expansive, smooth plains at depths of 15,000 to 18,000 feet?
abyssal
1553. Steinbeck
In what story by John Steinbeck does Jody Tiflin learn about horses, joy, and sorrow?
The Red Pony
1554. Waterways
What waterway was opened in 1869 to provide a shorter route from Europe to India?
Suez Canal
1555. Military Terminology
The right or left edge of an army formation is called a
flank
1556. Aircraft
In aviation, for what does the acronym STOL stand?
short take off and landing
1557. Cities
La Paz is the largest city in what country?
Bolivia
1558. Parodies
This is a parody of a saying by Mark Twain about what topic? Everybody talks about reality, but nobody does anything about it.
weather
1559. Subatomic Particles
It is a baryon with an electric charge of zero. It is a fermion with a basic structure of two down quarks and one up quark held together by gluons. Name this particle that composes the neutral component of atomic nuclei.
neutron
1560. Colonial Land Grabs
What governor of New Netherland invaded and annexed New Sweden?
Peter Stuyvesant
1561. Phobia Prefixes
What is a heliophobic most afraid of?
the Sun (sunlight)
1562.
These names are associated with the history of what state? Gerasim Pribilof William H. Seward Vitus Bering
Alaska
1563. Spices
The spice cinnamon is made from what part of the cinnamon tree?
bark
1564. European Geography
Vatican City is completely surrounded by what country?
Italy
1565. Special Days
About how many hours of daylight are there on
September 23rd?
1566. Guilds
In medieval times, what title was given to an established craftsman who belonged to a guild?
master
1567. Former Political Parties
The Populist Party of the late 1800s was largely formed from members of farmer's organizations. Name those organizations.
granges
1568. Art Textures
'Tactile' in art indicates what sense?
touch
1569. Predators
Name the largest apex terrestrial predator in Australia.
dingo
1570.
Johannesburg in the Transvaal was founded in 1886 and soon had a population of 100,000 working in the mines extracting what mineral?
gold
1571. Ancient Emperors
Emperor Ashoka converted to what religion that ultimately spread throughout India?
Buddhism
1572. Historic Quotations
In what Massachusetts town were these enduring words spoken by John Parker in 1775? Stand your ground. Don't fire unless fired upon. But, if they mean to have a war, let it begin here.
Lexington
1573. Children's Poems
What is the last word in this passage by Robert Louis Stevenson? Children, you are very little, And your bones are very brittle. If you would grow great and stately, You must try to walk ...
sedately
1574. Body Systems
The pancreas is part of which body system?
endocrine system
1575. Heat
If you mix a gallon of water at 212 degrees F with a gallon of water that is just above the freezing point, what will be the approximate temperature of the mixture?
122 degrees F
1576. Algebraic Expressions
Express these words as an algebraic equation. Twice the sum of nine and y is the same as the difference of y and seven.
2(9+y) = y-7
1577. Meteorology
A 'brown cloud' is associated with what form of atmospheric pollution?
smog
1578. Parallel Structure
Restate this line using parallel structure. I like shooting, fishing, and to play golf.
| like shooting, fishing, and playing golf.
1579. The Heart
Which of the three layers of the heart is thickest?
myocardium
1580. Leader Diseases
Hemophilia is a disease associated with the leaders of what nation until 1917?
Russia
1581. Coordinates
In the system of Cartesian coordinates, the x-coordinate of a point in a plane is called the ...
abscissa
1582. Sayings
These sayings are attributed to what film producer? -Include me out. -We have all passed a lot of water since then.
Sam Goldwyn
1583. Wartime Regions
Reminiscent of a facility for the performing arts, what is the term for a geographic region in which military operations are conducted?
theater
1584. Burns
What kind of burns may be caused by bleach, concrete mix, toilet bowl cleaner, battery fluid, and rust remover?
chemical burns
1585. Dynasties
The end of 118 years of the Tudor dynasty occurred in 1603 with the death of what queen?
Elizabeth |
1586. Boats
In 1807, it reached Albany from New York in 32 hours. Fulton wrote, 'It was then doubted if it could be done again or if done, it was doubted if it could be of any great value.' Name this boat.
Clermont (Fulton's Folly)
1587. Mechanics
What machine parts have these general functions? -reverse the direction of rotation -increase or decrease the speed of rotation -move rotational motion to a different axis -keep the rotation of two axes synchronized
gears
1588. Mineral Properties
What are the two main categories of mineral luster?
metallic, nonmetallic
1589. Character Inspirations
James Fenimore Cooper's character, Natty Bumppo was based, was based on what legendary American frontiersman?
Daniel Boone
1590. Surgery
A craniotomy is a surgical incision into what body structure?
skull
1591. Novels
In what story by Robert Cormier does Jerry Renault refuse to sell chocolates according to the demands of The Vigils, a school gang?
The Chocolate War
1592. Alloy History
By controlling access to copper and tin, the Chinese Shang Dynasty also controlled the production of what alloy?
bronze
1593. Government Authorization
What document is held by those who have official permission to perform certain activities such as flying an airplane, teaching high school students, practicing psychotherapy, or wiring new construction?
license
1594. Settings
What country is the setting for these novels? Red Lotus Silk Road Empress Orchid Palace of Heavenly Pleasures The Emperor's Pearl Murder in the Canton
China
1595. Natural Resources
In 1802, on islands off the west coast of South America, great deposits of a substance were found that proved useful in making fertilizers and explosives. Name this substance accumulated from the droppings of seabirds over thousands of years.
guano
1596. Presidents
During the last years of Reconstruction, the president was a former Union general named ...
Ulysses S. Grant
1597. 1
The two-letter combination used in the abbreviation for what southern state is the same as that for what extremely abundant silvery-white ductile metallic element?
aluminum
1598. Running Math
4 runners were jogging on a 20 mile course. One made it a quarter of the way. The next made it half way. The third completed three quarters of the way and the last finished the course. The total number of miles run was ...
50
1599. Forms of Poetry
These are two examples of what kind of poem? -I see your face when I am dreaming. That's why I always wake up screaming. -Whether or not we find what we are seeking, is idle, biologically speaking.
couplet
1600. Argument
The truth or falsity of an idea is determined not by where it came from, but by the evidence supporting it. To argue that a claim is true or false on the basis of its origin is to commit what fallacy?
genetic fallacy
1601. Parasites
This is about what kind of parasite common among dogs? It uses its hooks to fasten itself to the inside of a dog's intestines where it absorbs food. As it feeds, sections near the end of its body break away, carrying their eggs with them.
tapeworm (dog tapeworm)
1602. Animals in Literature
In 'Bridge to Terabithia,' what kind of animal is Prince Terrien?
dog
1603. Currencies
During the American Revolution, the colonies issued their own money, but American troops were paid by the Continental Congress in paper money called ...
continentals
1604. Presentations
What adjective indicates materials that present information in a pictorial and audible form?
audiovisual
1605. Illegal Archaeology
What is the term for illegal digging at archaeological sites to unearth artifacts for personal collections or sale on the black market?
pothunting
1606. Legislative Tactics
What tactic was illustrated when Huey Long spoke before the Senate for 15 hours and 30 minutes, urging continued Senate confirmation for senior employees of the National Recovery Administration and describing his favorite recipes?
filibuster
1607. So Long, Kids!
Who wrote this? When, lo, as they reached the mountain-side, A wondrous portal opened wide, As if a cavern was suddenly hollowed; And the Piper advanced and the children followed, And when all were in to the very last, The door in the mountain-side shut fast.
Robert Browning
1608. Adverbs
What is the positive form of the superlative adverb 'best'?
well
1609. Talk to the Animals
Cleopatra is addressing what creature when she says this in a Shakespearean play? With thy sharp teeth this knot intrinsicate Of life at once untie: poor venomous fool Be angry, and dispatch.
asp (snake)
1610. Kings
What epithet is associated with King Richard I of England?
the Lionhearted (Lionheart)
1611. Metamorphism
The two kinds of pressure involved in metamorphism include directed pressure which is dynamic and confining pressure which is what?
static
1612. Color
What is the term for a series of colored bands arranged of decreasing wavelength from infrared to ultraviolet?
spectrum (rainbow)
1613. Legends
John Chapman, a legendary figure in American history, spent the last 40 years of his life in the region of what valley?
Ohio River Valley
1614. Biomes
Which biome extends southward from the margin of the tundra into the temperate areas of North America and Eurasia and includes such life forms as pine trees, fir trees, moose, and deer?
coniferous forest
1615. Planets
Name this feature on one of the Jovian planets. This many-hued disturbance is a gargantuan atmospheric storm that extends deep into the cloud cover, and turns in a counterclockwise revolution every six Earth days.
Great Red Spot
1616. Macedonia
Ancient Macedonia included parts of Bulgaria and Yugoslavia and what other present-day country?
Greece
1617. Debate
A piece of evidence or a quote that is read to support an argument during a debate is called a ...
card
1618. Expressions
What is the collective name for these kinds of expressions? -be on pins and needles -make the fur fly -walk on air -run across an old acquaintance
idioms
1619. Legends
According to English legend, who did the sheriff hope would come to a great archery tournament to be held in Nottingham Town?
Robin Hood
1620. Mortgages
Jan and John are buying a house for a total price of $60,000. They make a 20% down payment. What is the amount of the loan?
$48,000
1621. Rivers
The Dnieper River practically bisects what Eastern European country?
Ukraine
1622. Clipped Words
What is the clipped word for 'situation comedy'?
sitcom
1623. Patio Math
Around a 15 x 18 foot redwood patio is a concrete walkway 3 feet wide. What is the ratio of the area of the walkway to the area of the patio?
13 to 15
1624. Clauses
What is the subordinate clause in this statement? He gathered up the garbage that the skunks had disbursed.
that the skunks had disbursed
1625. First Ladies
Name the lady whose husband and fifth cousin became the 32nd president.
Eleanor Roosevelt
1626. Proverbs
According to the proverb, virtue is its own what?
reward
1627. Voltage
What is the output voltage on a 110-volt line with a voltage drop of 9 1/4 volts from the panel to the outlet?
100 3/4 (or 100.75) volts
1628. Fertilizer
Which major nutrient in fertilizer encourages plants to grow tall and green?
nitrogen
1629. Colors
The complementary color of violet is ...
yellow
1630. Resuscitation
What three letters stand for the critical steps in cardiopulmonary resuscitation?
ABC
1631. Tsunamis
The tsunami in 2004 that killed an estimated 230,000 people was triggered by an earthquake beneath what ocean?
Indian Ocean
1632. Australian Metropolises
Name the largest city and the major seaport of Australia.
Sydney
1633. U
If you were somewhere in the state of New York and headed due east, what is the maximum number of other states you could pass through before reaching the Atlantic?
three
1634. Summit Meetings
In 1960, a summit meeting in what city collapsed when the U.S. refused to apologize to the Soviet Union in regard to a U-2 spy plane incident?
Paris
1635. Food Physics
This is what happens when you are making what? When heated, the moisture inside the hull turns into superheated pressurized steam. The starch inside the seed gelatinizes and becomes pliable. As the temperature increases, the hull ruptures and its contents expand into an airy foam that cools and sets into a crispy puff.
popcorn
1636. Colonies
What colony in the southeast corner of modern Massachusetts was a separate entity until 1691 when it became part of the Province of Massachusetts Bay?
Plymouth
1637. Marine Biology
What structures do most aquatic animals possess for gas exchange?
gills
1638. Stream Valleys
The side-to-side cutting of a stream bed as it approaches its base level produces a relatively flat valley floor often inundated by high water, a region also known as a what?
floodplain
1639. Graphic Arts
Creating motion in graphic images on film through small progressive changes in each drawing cell is called what?
animation
1640. Insurance
Walt was a school superintendent until he was severely trampled by a herd of buffalo. Although he was out of work for two years, the school district carried what kind of insurance that provided him with an income as long as he was incapable of performing his regular functions?
disability insurance
1641. Wars
In 1879, troops from what European colonial power killed some 8000 Zulu warriors?
Great Britain
1642. Tolkien Commentaries
Those of us who have followed Frodo on his quest know that we, like him, would have never gotten up the steep slope of Mount Doom had not what faithful character flung us on his back and carried us up?
Sam
1643. Number Transformations
Transform the binary numeral 1111 into a Roman numeral.
XV
1644. Parallel Construction
Improve this example by replacing the last three words with a single word to incorporate parallel construction. Her essay was objective, timely, and a real challenge.
Her essay was objective, timely, and challenging.
1645. Energy
The kind of nuclear energy used in power plants is ...
fission
1646. Reference Books
This was the original purpose of what reference book? To supply a desideratum to the English language - a collection of the words it contains and the idiomatic combinations peculiar to it, arranged according to the ideas which they express.
thesaurus
1647. Disaster Nonfiction
Jim Murphy's book, 'The Great Fire,' is about an inferno that raged in what Midwestern city in 1871?
Chicago
1648. Geographic Highs
Depending on your perspective, the highest mountain in Europe is either Mt. Blanc in the Alps or what other mountain in the Caucasus?
Mt. Elbrus
1649. Tombs
At the Vatican, whose tomb is beneath the altar of the world's largest church?
St. Peter's
1650. Planets
Consisting mostly of carbon dioxide, the atmosphere of which terrestrial planet is densest?
Venus
1651. Towering Trees
Name either state where there are massive trees named for a Cherokee scholar.
Oregon, California
1652. Lincoln
According to Abraham Lincoln, what kind of a house cannot stand?
house divided against itself
1653. Federal Agencies
These are agencies of what executive department? Bureau of Engraving and Printing Bureau of the Public Debt Financial Crimes Enforcement Network Internal Revenue Service
Department of the Treasury
1654. Rivers
What river starts in Switzerland and flows northward more than 800 miles to the North Sea?
Rhine
1655.
Crunches develop what muscles?
abdominals (abs)
1656. Energy
What modern devices for storing electrical energy evolved from Alessandro Volta's voltaic pile?
batteries
1657. Infant Anatomy
Fontanels and sutures are essential during infancy for the development of what organ?
brain
1658. Small States
Name the second-smallest U.S. state.
Delaware
1659. World War II Conferences
The Yalta Conference, held in the Crimea in 1945, involved Franklin Roosevelt, Joseph Stalin, and what other leader?
Winston Churchill
1660. Algebraic Proportions
Solve this proportion. (y-5)/ 7 = 3/5
46/5 (or 9 1/5 or 9.2)
1661. Mythical Kidnappings
Every year since her abduction by Hades, what daughter of Demeter and Zeus spends six months on Earth and six months in the underworld?
Persephone
1662. Chemical Processes
Name the process of making a substance white by destroying its coloring matter.
bleaching
1663. Algebra
Solve this for x. The log of x to the base 2 is 5.
32
1664. Infections
Name the fungal infection of the foot caused by various dermatophytes.
athlete's foot
1665. Evil Porksters
Name the fierce-looking Berkshire boar who leads the rebellion against Mr. Jones in George Orwell's 'Animal Farm.'
Napoleon
1666. Science Fiction Doggies
What British author created Know-Nothing Bozo the Non-Wonder Dog, the Hurling Frootmig, and the Lajestic Vantrashell of Lob?
Douglas Adams
1667. Animal Analogies
What antlered animals are to the Lapps as bison were to American plains Indians?
reindeer
1668. Nomination Conventions
Name the type of convention that occurs when no presidential candidate has enough pledged delegates to win the nomination and unpledged or superdelegates end up making the final choice.
brokered convention
1669. Monuments
Because of money problems and the Civil War, work was temporarily suspended on what monument in the District of Columbia that eventually reached a height of 555 feet?
Washington Monument
1670. Archaeology
There is some speculation that Cadbury Hill in England might have been the site of what castle that is central to the Arthurian legends?
Camelot
1671. Vocabulary
What verb beginning with 'm' means 'to reduce to the smallest possible amount or extent'?
minimize
1672. Immigration
An enormous number of immigrants converged on what land mass following the 1851 discovery of gold in New South Wales?
Australia
1673. Roman Numerals
What number is represented by the Roman numeral DCCXLIX?
749
1674. City Economics
What is the best-known manufactured product associated with Detroit?
automobiles (cars)
1675. Foreign Policy
Name the policy of Theodore Roosevelt based on massive military and naval power as an instrument of foreign diplomacy.
Big Stick policy
1676. Lunar Phases
In what phase is the Moon when its longitude is the same as that of the Sun?
new moon
1677. Eskimo Stories
What literary device is used in the title of James Houston's novel, 'Frozen Fire'?
oxymoron
1678. Earth Science History
The largest international scientific effort ever undertaken explored the Earth and its environment during an 18 month period beginning in 1957. Name this undertaking.
International Geophysical Year (IGY)
1679. Earth's Plates
The thickest part of the South American plate is beneath the Andes mountain range. The thinnest part of that plate is along what ridge?
Mid-Atlantic Ridge
1680. Warning Signs
These words are from a trail sign that warns of what disorder? Lightheadedness, headache, and disorientation often occur at this elevation. You may faint or underestimate other dangers. If you experience these symptoms, avoid physical exertion and return to a lower elevation.
altitude (or mountain) sickness
1681. Sensation
A receptor for what sensation surrounds the root of almost every hair on your body?
touch
1682. Dams
The Chinese recently completed what dam that is supposed to control the Yangtze River?
Three Gorges Dam
1683. Fortified Sanctuaries
One of the main strongholds of the Navajo was Canyon de Chelly in the northeastern part of what present-day state?
Arizona
1684. Famines
Immigration to North America was greatly accelerated during the middle of the nineteenth century by a great potato famine in what country?
Ireland
1685. Injuries
Muscle is to strain as ligament is to what other kind of injury?
sprain
1686. Impossible Mechanics
What kind of unfeasible machine would produce more energy than it consumes, resulting in a net output of energy for indefinitely long time?
perpetual motion machine
1687. Prisms
What is the volume of a triangular prism with base dimensions of 8 and 3 centimeters and a height of 2 centimeters?
24 cubic centimeters
1688. Australia
The Murray River separates New South Wales from what other Australian state to its south?
Victoria
1689. Farewells
A famous remark made by what American revolutionary may have been inspired by this line from Joseph Addison's play, 'Cato'? What a pity it is that we can die but once to serve our country.
Nathan Hale
1690. Gods
Huitzilopochtli was the chief god of what empire in Latin America that practiced human sacrifice?
Aztec
1691. Salty Legends
The legendary creatures that are like mermaids but of the opposite sex are called ...
mermen
1692. Storms
Name the cloud-free central vortex of a tropical cyclone.
eye
1693. Eastern Europe
What country that was part of Czechoslovakia until 1993 borders Poland, Germany, and Austria?
Czech Republic
1694. Special Batteries
These power sources are typically used on spacecraft. Name this special kind of electric battery that keeps on making electricity as long as oxygen and hydrogen are fed into it.
fuel cell
1695. Light
As light passes through a medium, it is scattered by small obstacles or irregularities in its path. The higher the frequency of the light, the more readily scattering occurs. This fact helps explain why the sky is what?
blue
1696. Cells
What blood cells are disc-shaped with a depression in the center, nonnucleated, and manufactured in bone marrow?
erythrocytes (red blood cells)
1697. Canadian Towns
What city was founded in 1642 on an island where the Ottawa and Richelieu rivers flow into the St. Lawrence?
Montreal
1698. Verb Identification
Identify the words used as verbs in this example. Whenever I hear 'to be or not to be,' I want to be alone.
hear, want
1699. lowa History
The region that became Iowa was originally part of what land transaction in 1803?
Louisiana Purchase
1700. Microscopes
What kind of microscope uses a stream of negatively-charged subatomic particles to magnify an object as much as 50,000 times?
electron microscope
1701. Right Triangles
If the square root of the hypotenuse is 13 feet, then what is the sum of the squares of the lengths of the two legs?
169
1702. Predators
Because they are flesh-eaters, predators are described as being ...
carnivorous
1703. Age Problems
In 3 years, Natasha's grandma will be six times as old as Natasha was last year. When Natasha's present age is added to her grandma's present age, the total is 68.
How old is Natasha now?
1704. Verb Forms
Which principal part of verbs is used with 'has,' 'have,' or 'had'?
past participle
1705. Novels
These are parts of what story? -Mr. and Mrs. Gilbreth -a temperamental Pierce Arrow -a family of twelve children
Cheaper by the Dozen
1706. Locations
Where are you if the celestial equator passes directly overhead?
on the equator (0 degrees latitude)
1707. Geographic Lows
What is the lowest point on the continent with the world's highest mountain?
Dead Sea
1708. Government
What form of government is associated with landed wealth, monetary wealth, or religious superiority?
aristocracy
1709. Page Calculations
If the sum of four consecutive page numbers is 850, what is the largest of these page numbers?
214
1710. Forces
There is no Coriolis force along what imaginary line on the Earth's surface?
equator
1711. The Colonial Period
Name the southernmost of the original thirteen colonies.
Georgia
1712. Monty Python
From what is the pin to be removed in this passage? First shalt thou take out the Holy Pin. Then shalt thou count to three, no more--no less. Three shall be the number thou shalt count. Four shalt thou not count, neither count thou two, excepting that thou proceed to three.
Holy Hand Grenade
1713. Sports
Name the most widely played athletic sport in the world.
soccer
1714. Cheating
Any illegal interference during an election that increases the number of votes for a candidate or decreases the number of votes for rivals is called electoral what?
fraud
1715. Court Cases
In Norris v. Alabama, the conviction of several black men falsely charged with the rape of a young white woman was overturned on the basis that what group of people was excluded from jury panels?
blacks
1716. Government History
The U.S. Continental Congress consisted of how many houses?
one
1717. Mexico
On an island in Lake Texcoco, the Aztecs built their capital city named ...
Tenochtitlan
1718. Geology
Astronomers and geologists classify what as stones, stony-irons, or irons?
meteorites
1719. Texas Towns
What Texas city is on the Rio Grande across from the Mexican city of Nuevo Laredo?
Laredo
1720. Obituaries
This actor who passed away in 1989 was known for his lead roles in such productions as 'Hamlet' and 'Richard III.' He has been called the century's definitive man of the theater. Name him.
Lawrence Olivier
1721. Theater
While the producer is responsible for the financial side of a theatrical production, what is the title of the person responsible for its artistic presentation?
director
1722. Little Women
In 'Little Women,' which of the March girls is the tomboy?
Jo
1723. Clever Chapter Titles
What writing technique is illustrated in these chapter headings from an English text? Pompous Circumstances Smothering Heights Critique of Poor Reason Grammar Moses I Second That Emotion The Importance of Being Honest Revise and Consent /
pun (or allusion)
1724. Beat Poetry
Name Allen Ginsberg's epic beat poem, the title of which is reminiscent of the long, mournful, plaintive sound of a canine.
Howl
1725. Responsibilities
What is the title of the person of authority cited in this excerpt from the Constitution? When vacancies happen in the representation from any state, the executive authority thereof shall issue writs of election to fill such vacancies.
governor
1726. Ballets
Tchaikovsky wrote the music for a ballet which tells of a beautiful young girl awakening to her first moments with what prince?
Prince Charming
1727. Mixtures
How many pounds of candy worth 65 cents per pound must be mixed with 10 pounds of candy worth 90 cents per pound to make a mixture worth 70 cents per pound?
40 pounds
1728. City Fathers
During the California gold rush, John Sutter's son started plans for a new city to which he gave what name?
Sacramento
1729. Clouds
What cloud classification means 'feathery'?
cirrus
1730. Clouds
What name applies to any cloud that produces precipitation?
nimbus
1731. Inversions
In a meteorological inversion, what happens to air temperature with an increase in altitude?
It increases.
1732. Integumentary Inflammations
What communicable disease caused by a parasitic fungus is often transmitted in moist environments where people walk barefoot, such as showers and locker rooms?
athlete's foot
1733. Tissues
Name the two folds of tissue in the larynx that vibrate when air passes over them.
vocal cords
1734. Classic Rock
What term for a large landform is missing in the titles of these works of classical music? Night on Bald ---- Hall of the _— King
Mountain
1735. Light Bulbs
The glass bulb enclosing the filament in an incandescent light bulb contains either a vacuum or an inert gas that prevents what chemical reaction from occurring on the filament?
oxidation
1736. Trigonometry
What is the next positive angle coterminal with an angle of 105 degrees?
465 degrees
1737. Fish
These are varieties of what kind of fish whose name is reminiscent of a venomous arachnid? lionfish, stonefish, butterfly cod, firefish, turkeyfish, dragonfish
scorpionfish
1738. Government Scandals
Most of the killings resulting from the Department of Justice's misguided 'Fast and Furious' program occurred in what country?
Mexico
1739. Epitaphs
Whose epitaph reads as follows? Free at last. Free at last. Thank God Almighty I'm free at last.
Martin Luther King
1740. Summer Showers
Thunderstorms occur in which layer of the atmosphere?
troposphere
1741. Diseases
What skin color is associated with jaundice?
yellow
1742. Communications History
In the 15th century, printing with movable type was invented by a man of what nationality?
German
1743. Incidents of the Old West
In what town did this incident take place? Eight men took part in the fight on Fremont Street in 1881. When it was over, three were dead, three others were wounded, and the two chief antagonists, Wyatt Earp and Ike Clanton, were unharmed.
Tombstone
1744. Proofreading
What component is missing in this sentence? Fossils brought in from as far away as Borneo.
a predicate
1745. Numbers in Poetry
What ordinal number is in the first verse of Longfellow's 'Midnight Ride of Paul Revere'?
eighteenth
1746. Russia
In 1922, what name did the Bolsheviks give to the former Russian empire?
U.S.S.R. (Soviet Union)
1747. Legal Authority
Name the authority granted to a court to address legal matters and administer justice within a defined region of responsibility.
jurisdiction
1748. Decisions
Who is Gerald Ford speaking about in this quote? It was a tough decision. We needed to get the matter off my desk so I could concentrate on the problems of 260 million Americans and not have to worry about the problems of one man.
Richard Nixon
1749. Detention
Sometimes law enforcement personnel will place a person in a government facility or foster home to shield him or her from a dangerous person or situation. Such detention is called what kind of custody?
protective custody
1750. Diplomacy
In 1979, Leonid Brezhnev and Jimmy Carter signed SALT II. But later that year, arms limitation talks and detente came to an abrupt halt when the Soviets invaded what country?
Afghanistan
1751. Geometric Formulas
The volume of a cylinder can be calculated by multiplying pi by the radius squared by what other factor?
height
1752. Musicals
These words are from a song in what musical by Jerome Kern? Ol’ man river, dat ol' man river, He must know sumpin’, but don't say nothin’, He just keeps rollin’, he keeps on rollin' along.
Show Boat
1753. National Treasures
The state in which Jefferson Davis and Abraham Lincoln were born is the home of what national park of special interest to speleologists?
Mammoth Cave
1754. Colonial Enterprises
Two years after Britain established the English East India Company, the Netherlands followed by establishing what similar company?
Dutch East India Company
1755. Colonies
Before Trinidad and Tobago became a republic, they had been colonies of what country?
Great Britain (England, U.K.)
1756. Primitive Science
Ancient Greeks classified all matter in one of four categories of elements including earth, fire, and what other two?
air, water
1757. Polynomials
What kind of polynomial is illustrated in this expression? 4p + 6(q squared) + 2(r cubed)
trinomial
1758. Clauses
What kind of pronoun introduces the dependent clause in this example? The guy who is wearing the red suit, the black boots, and the goofy hat is Mr. Claus.
relative pronoun
1759. Black Holes
By definition, the escape velocity from a black hole must be greater than the ...
speed of light
1760. Word Combos
What portmanteau word can be made from 'spoon' and 'fork'?
spork
1761. Atoms
A neutral atom with nine electrons has how many protons within its nucleus?
nine
1762. Weight
Neil weighed 30 pounds on the Moon. What did he weigh when he returned to Earth?
180 pounds
1763. Excretions
Bilirubin is a yellow substance that results from the breakdown of red blood cells. It is excreted as a component of what green liquid?
bile
1764. Human Anatomy
These are parts of what body system? -spindle organs in striated muscle -Pacini's corpuscles in the dermis -Meissner's corpuscles in the dermis -hair cells in inner ear -Ruffini's corpuscles in joints
nervous system
1765. Theater
In a dramatic presentation, these are examples of what kind of characters? -the braggart soldier -the buffoon -the penny pincher -the coward -the absent-minded professor -the trickster -the bov next door
stock characters
1766. Poisons
What is the collective name for poisons produced by living things?
toxins
1767. Musical Parodies
This is a parody of what song from 'Fiddler on the Roof'? If I had some donuts, Yummy, yummy, pat the tummy, with a yummy yummy yum. All day long I'd selly, selly some. Chocolatey ones with nuts.
If | Were a Rich Man
1768. References
What kind of dictionaries include subjects such as these? -20th-century classical musicians -science fiction and fantasy artists -free thinkers of all ages and nations -women in science -professional wrestlers -action movie stars
biographical dictionaries
1769. Fantasy Diseases
In the Harry Potter stories, what potentially fatal, contagious disease that occurs in wizards and witches not only has symptoms similar to chicken pox and smallpox, but also leaves the victim's skin with a lasting greenish tinge, a green and purple rash between the toes, and sparks flashing from the nose during a sneeze?
dragon pox
1770. Couplets
What three words complete this quote by Alexander Pope? Nay, fly to altars; there they'll talk you dead. For fools rush in where angels ...
fear to tread
1771. Hemoglobin
Hemoglobin can bind with what three gas molecules?
oxygen, carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide
1772. Fables
What was bestowed by the following? Reynard's wonderful ring Otnit's ring Alberich's cap Jack the Giant-Killer's cloak Perseus' helmet
invisibility
1773. Grass
Most grasses are herbaceous or non-woody plants. What grass with woody stems is the tallest exception?
bamboo
1774. Gandhi
Mohandas Gandhi used non-violent passive resistance to gain support for Indian freedom. But when independence came, two countries were created: India for Hindus and Pakistan for ...
Muslims (Moslems, Islamics)
1775. Density
Which is the densest planet in the solar system?
Earth
1776. Fictional Sleuths
Edward Stratemeyer created two inquisitive young heroes named Frank and Joe. What is their last name?
Hardy (as in Hardy Boys)
1777. Robots
Name the robot in the science fiction work, 'Forbidden Planet.'
Robbie
1778. Medical Talk
These terms relate to what structures? odontoclast odontograph odontotripsis odontolithiasis
teeth
1779. Government Agencies
Name the federal agency responsible for supervising and coordinating various programs relating to American Indians.
Bureau of Indian Affairs
1780. Allusions
What path, reminiscent of a flowering plant, is a way of life of worldly pleasure or an easy course of action that seems appropriate but which may actually end in calamity?
primrose path
1781.
A liquid dye used to enhance the grain in wood is called a ...
stain
1782.
What tort was committed when Steve stated untruthfully in several public meetings that the superintendent of schools in his town was a former Nazi, torturer for the Sandinistas, kidnapper, counterfeiter, and a spitter on sidewalks?
slander
1783. Mollusks
What is produced by a mollusk by coating an irritant with hundreds of layers of nacre over several years?
a pearl
1784. Taxes
The form to be filed with a taxing authority by a taxpayer which details one's income, expenses, exemptions, and deductions is called a tax ...
return
1785. Blame for Books
The blame for the following works of nonfiction lies with what political party? Smoke and Ashes: the Story of the Holocaust A Nightmare in History: The Holocaust We Remember the Holocaust
Nazi (National Socialist German Workers' Party)
1786. Marsupials
Wombats are burrowing marsupials native to Australia and what nearby island separated from the continent by the Bass Strait?
Tasmania
1787. Disasters
Sulfurous gases and falling debris killed many people. The rest died when fine ash moistened by steam covered the area twenty feet deep. Name this city that died in 79 A.D.
Pompeii (or Herculaneum)
1788. Amendments
What phrase in the 8th Amendment describes punishment that is unacceptable due to the suffering or humiliation it inflicts on a condemned person?
cruel and unusual
1789. Clauses
This sentence fragment is actually what kind of dependent clause? Which lasted forty days and forty nights.
adjective clause
1790. Lava
Name the sheetlike bodies produced when magma is injected into subterranean fractures that cut across rock layers.
dikes
1791. Scientific Notation
Express in scientific notation the product of (1 times 10 to the negative fifth power) times (-6 times 10 to the seventh power).
-6 times 10 to the 2nd power
1792. Scenery
What is the term for the scenery constructed for a dramatic presentation?
set
1793. Trinomial Factoring
Factor b squared + Sb + 6.
(b+2)(b+3)
1794. Elections
The number of the voting age population that actually votes in an election is called the voter what?
turnout
1795. County Officials
The title of what executive official is abbreviated 'DA'?
district attorney
1796. Hazards
Yuri Yamnowitz works in his luminous radium watch factory in Chernobyl. He has rented much of his floor space to the government for the storage of barrels of benzene and bales of asbestos. One way or another, Yuri is more likely than most to end up with what disease?
cancer
1797. Reciprocals
.0119 is the reciprocal of what number?
84
1798. Constellations
Name the constellation that represents the creature whose Golden Fleece was the object of a quest by Jason and the Argonauts.
Aries
1799. Old West Outlaws
This is about whom? There is only one American bandit who is classical, who is to this country what Robin Hood or Dick Turpin is to England.
Jesse James
1800. Heads of State
These people were heads of state on what continent? Anwar E]-Sadat Robert Mugabe Jomo Kenyatta
Africa
1801. Blood
About 140,000 red blood cells are created every minute in your bone marrow. After a useful life of a few months, they are destroyed in what organ?
liver
1802. Subordinate Clauses
Identify the subordinate clause in this line. Those who do not grow fins on their backs are rarely pickled.
who do not grow fins on their backs
1803. Novels
Louis Sachar tells of his inspiration for what book in these words? Anyone who has ever tried to do yard work in Texas in July can easily imagine Hell to be a place where you are required to dig a hole five feet deep and five feet across day after day under the brutal Texas sun.
Holes
1804. Continents
What continent has these characteristics? -an area of 7 million square miles -a population of 260 million -a lowest point of 131 feet below sea level at Salinas Grande -the world's southernmost city -Mt. Aconcagua
South America
1805. People and Places
What word that indicates British peat bogs also applies to the Moslems of northwest Africa?
moors
1806. Blood
Approximately half of whole blood consists of what clear yellowish liquid?
plasma
1807. Ocean Waves
When breakers crash onto a shore headlong, the water flows back beneath the new incoming waves creating a seaward pull of the receding water called ...
undertow
1808. Gems
Name the flat surfaces cut on gemstones.
facets (faces)
1809. Treaties
The Oregon Treaty gave the U.S. undisputed claim to the Pacific Northwest south of what parallel of latitude?
49th
1810. Thermometers
Although Galileo is credited with developing the first thermometer in 1592, it was not until 1713 that what other scientist developed the first closed-tube mercury thermometer?
Gabriel Fahrenheit
1811. Other Base Division
Divide 101 base 2 by 10 base 2.
10 remainder 1
1812. Shared Names
What name was shared by a very light aircraft that made the first nonstop flight around the world in 1986 and a series of U.S. spacecraft on interplanetary probes beginning in the 1970s?
Voyager
1813. Political Activism
Politically speaking, what kind of groups are these? Greenpeace American Israel Public Affairs Committee National Rifle Association People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals Sierra Club
advocacy (pressure, lobby, special interest)
1814. Atmospheric Temperature
The three means by which Earth's atmosphere is heated are conduction, convection, and what other?
radiation
1815. Meteorological Hazards
What is this about? Water may travel down-channel as fast as 22 mph with a viscous forward wall of sediment and water standing 5 feet in height.
flash floods
1816.
In many states, voters registered as independents cannot vote in what kind of election?
primary
1817. International Unrest
In 2009, what country stated that any attempt to board and inspect the cargo ship Kang Nam | would be regarded as an act of war?
North Korea
1818. Lakes
Name the largest Eurasian freshwater lake.
Lake Baikal
1819. The U
Which is the only branch of U.S. government with the power to interpret the Constitution?
judicial branch
1820. Figures of Speech
This passage by Carl Sagan illustrates what figure of speech? Discouraging the natural scientific curiosity of kids is just one of the causes of scientific illiteracy which afflicts the United States like drought in Death Valley.
simile
1821. U
In what year did the United States actually enter the First World War?
1917
1822. Native American History
The Indian Removal Act of 1830 provided for the general relocation of Indians to lands west of what river?
Mississippi
1823. Latin America
You must travel through what country to get from Venezuela to Panama?
Colombia
1824. Geometry
Sectors, arcs, and radii are parts of what plane geometric figures?
circles
1825. Scientific Poetry
This poem describes what biological theory? In the mud of the Cambrian main Did our earliest ancestors dive. From a shapeless, albuminous grain We mortals are being derived.
evolution
1826. Weapons
Name the long wooden pole with a sharp metal head used by the knights of yore as a weapon in a joust.
lance
1827. Wars
What war resulted in the end of the Ottoman, German, Russian, and Austro-Hungarian empires?
World War | (Great War)
1828. Syllabication
Divide 'authenticate' into syllables.
au-then-ti-cate
1829. Happy Trails
The introduction of the Atchison, Topeka, and Santa Fe Railroad in 1880 made wagon travel so unattractive and slow that what trail between Missouri and New Mexico fell into disuse?
Santa Fe Trail
1830. Canyon Analogies
Waimea Canyon is to Hawaii as ---- is to Arizona.
the Grand Canyon
1831. Baking Chemistry
In a bakery, yeast ferment what substance to produce the carbon dioxide that makes bread rise?
sugar
1832. Idaho
What Idaho river is also called The River of No Return?
Salmon River
1833. Plants
Succulents store water in their ...
leaves (stems)
1834. Modular Arithmetic
What are the two smallest integers that will make this statement of congruence true?
x + 25 is congruent to 3 in mod 7
1835. Perimeter Problems
The perimeter of a rectangular play area is 150 feet. Find its dimensions if the length is 5 feet less than three times the width.
20' x 55'
1836. Inventions
Long before they became common in Europe, wheelbarrows had been in use in what Asian country?
China
1837. Gliding
A glider pilot who sees no dust devils or clouds must rely to some degree on luck to locate rising streams of warm air called what?
thermals (updrafts)
1838. Colonial Education
Name either of the two New Jersey colleges that existed at the start of the American Revolution.
Rutgers, Princeton
1839. Light
What kind of light has all its electric field vectors oriented in the same direction?
polarized
1840. Fruits
What kind of fruit is a clementine?
citrus fruit (or mandarin orange)
1841. Waterway Technology
What massive structures that were required by the Panama Canal are entirely absent and unnecessary in the Suez Canal?
locks
1842. Historical Linguistics
These are language families of what continent? Yoruba Songhai Sotho Berber
Africa
1843. Science Literature
Who in 1687 wrote this work? Philosophiae Naturalis Principia Mathematica
Isaac Newton
1844. Heavenly Bodies
What body in our solar system is comprised of these? 1.4% oxygen 4% metals 28% helium 70% hydrogen
the Sun
1845. General's Dispatches
The name of what river completes this dispatch by General George McClellan intended to steady the nerves of Washingtonians after the Union defeat at Bull Run? All quiet along the ...
Potomac
1846. Emblems
The crescent shape is a symbol of the moon and an emblem of what religion?
Islam
1847. Coefficients
What is the numerical coefficient of 2y/5?
2/5
1848. Legislative Committees
Name the smaller, more specialized committees that are organized by and operate under the authority of congressional standing committees.
subcommittees
1849. Journalism
What term is used in journalism for an ongoing series of articles in a newspaper by one author, often including opinionated observations?
column
1850. Nonfiction for Strong Stomachs
What name is missing from all these titles? Survival: A Novel of the ---- Party The Perilous Journey of the ---- Party The ---- Party Chronicles: A Day-by-Day Account of a Doomed Wagon Train Ordeal By Hunger: The Story of the ---- Party Snowbound: The Tragic Story of the ---- Party
Donner
1851. Generals
This is about what general? In a masterpiece of planning and execution, he crossed the Mississippi near Vicksburg and marched to insert his army between John Pemberton's at Vicksburg and Joseph Johnston's at Jackson and won five battles.
Ulysses Grant
1852. Presidential Surprises
President Truman was attending what wartime conference when he learned of the success of the Manhattan Project?
Potsdam Conference
1853. Steamboats
Although it is erroneously referred to at the Clermont, Robert Fulton's North River Steamboat operated on what river that flows north to south through eastern New York state?
Hudson River
1854. Populations
A population at equilibrium has reached the environment's carrying ...
capacity
1855. Motion
Name the temperature at which atomic motion ceases altogether.
absolute zero
1856. Foot Soldiers
What compound word describes the holes dug by members of the infantry to serve as shelters?
foxholes
1857. Foreign Officials
What is the American equivalent of the Italian carabinieri, the French gendarmes, and the British bobbies?
policemen
1858. Japan
Who became a strictly ceremonial leader of Japan after the Second World War?
Hirohito (the emperor)
1859. Unusual Professions
These people were excellent performers in what form of entertainment? Philippe Petit Karl Wallenda
tight-rope walking
1860. History of Government
Who wrote in his 'Two Treatises on Civil Government' in the 18th century that men are by nature free, equal and independent?
John Locke
1861. Rock Masses
A batholith is a huge underground mass of rock formed by the cooling of what?
magma
1862. Cities
Mexico City was formerly what Aztec city?
Tenochtitlan
1863. Atmospheric Crud
What is the term for a slight clouding of the atmosphere caused by the suspension of soot, dust, or other particulate matter?
haze (smog, smaze)
1864. International Organizations
Name the largest country in the Americas that is part of the Commonwealth of Nations.
Canada
1865. Circles
What is the radius of a circle whose circumference is 72 pi?
36
1866. Longitude
What is the longitude of a person anywhere along the prime meridian?
zero degrees
1867. Vitamins
In 1928, scientists discovered that peppers are four times richer than lemons in what antiscurvy vitamin?
vitamin C
1868. Shared Surnames
What surname was shared by a Scottish economist, the founder of Jamestown, an American fur trader, and the founder of the Mormon religion?
Smith
1869. The Soviet Union
Soviet satellite states included Poland, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria, and what former country of northern Europe on the Baltic Sea?
East Germany
1870. Nutrition
What are the three main classes of compounds that are energy sources for heterotrophs?
carbohydrates, fats, proteins
1871. Novels
What novel by Dan Brown draws on conspiracy theories involving the Roman Catholic Church, Opus Dei and the Priory of Sion?
The Da Vinci Code
1872. Symptoms
Old Uncle Dickie has a pain in his neck, along with headaches, dizziness, and blurred vision. Given that he was stopped at a traffic light when he got rear-ended by a careless motorist a few days ago, name the injury he had probably sustained.
whiplash
1873. Architecture
Name the method of construction in which individual vertical members support horizontal crosspieces.
post and lintel (post and beam)
1874. Protein Synthesis
In living cells, the process by which the information for the synthesis of a protein is transferred from the DNA strand to the messenger RNA strand involved in the actual synthesis is called ...
transcription
1875. Grammar
How does 'rare' function in this statement by Fred Allen? Television is a medium because anything well done is rare.
predicate adjective
1876. Diffusion
Diffusion occurs in all states of matter, but it occurs rapidly enough to be noticed in a reasonable period of time only with respect to what two states of matter?
liquids, gases
1877. Electric Devices
A generator converts mechanical energy into electric energy. What device changes electric energy into mechanical energy?
motor
1878. Lost at Sea
People lost at sea have gone to Davy Jones' what?
locker
1879. History of Medicine
What 17th-century English physician was ridiculed for his idea that the heart is a muscle that pumps blood around the body through the arteries and veins?
William Harvey
1880. Ichthyology
What invasive jawless fish have become a major problem in the Great Lakes?
lampreys (sea lampreys)
1881. Futuristic Novels
These lines are from what Ray Bradbury novel? -A book is a loaded gun in the house next door. Who knows who might be the target of the well-read man? -The terrible tyranny of the majority. -Time was burning the years and the people anyway, without any help from him. So if he burnt things with the firemen and the sun burnt Time. that meant evervthing burnt!
Fahrenheit 451
1882. The Skeletal System
Name the first cervical vertebra by which the head articulates with the occipital bone.
atlas
1883. Ranching
In what country are the ranches called stations?
Australia
1884. Legends
In his last moments of life, who shot an arrow into the distance and asked to be buried with his bow wherever it landed?
Robin Hood
1885. Landforms
The name for what landform is derived from Latin words which mean, 'almost an island'?
peninsula
1886.
The process by which an acid reacts with a base to form a salt and water is called ...
neutralization
1887. Protozoans
Most of an amoeba's cell is filled with a type of protoplasm called what?
cytoplasm
1888. Nutrition
What category of nutrients contains about twice as many calories as carbohydrates?
fats
1889. Predators
Name the apex predators of the open ocean.
sharks
1890. Chemical Compounds
Crystals of sodium carbonate are efflorescent and decompose to a white powder while releasing what substance into the atmosphere?
water
1891. Collapses
An inward collapse of a vessel is an ...
implosion
1892. Deep Thoughts
This illustrates what kind of thought, according to George Orwell? to know and not to know, to be conscious of complete truthfulness while telling carefully constructed lies, to hold simultaneously two contradictory opinions
doublethink
1893. Invasions
What letter of the alphabet is associated with the Allied
landing on the Normandy beaches in World War II?
1894. Blisters
Name the watery substance that fills blisters on the skin.
lymph
1895. Roman Numerals
What Roman numeral is on the Great Seal of the United States?
MDCCLXXVI
1896. Ducking the Issue
Which president is described below? In his final message to Congress, the lame duck president stressed that states had no right to secede, but having always favored the southern cause, he did nothing to stop such an action.
James Buchanan
1897. Anthropology
What ethnic group used boats with outriggers and sailed vast distances to colonize the Pacific Ocean about 2000 years ago?
Polynesian
1898. Writing Techniques
What literary technique is illustrated in this line? Bill sat on his deck watching the magnificent forest in the morning sunlight for what would be the last time.
foreshadowing
1899. 1
In what Mideast city are these sites? The Western Wall Tunnels The Jaffa Gate Knesset Damascus Gate Zion Gate City of David Visitors Center
Jerusalem
1900. Anatomy
Another name for that part of the skeletal system called the thoracic basket is the ...
rib cage
1901. City States
What English adjective is derived from the name of an ancient Greek city which is synonymous with these qualities? hardy undaunted frugal severe
Spartan
1902. National Movements
What similar national movement that paralleled the National Socialism movement in Germany began in Italy around 1919?
fascism
1903. Artillery
Until the late 19th century, the only available propellant used in artillery was what powder?
black powder
1904. Political Parties
These were some of the favorite songs of what American political party in the 1870s? I'll Marry No Man If He Drinks Vote Down the Vile Traffic The Drunkard's Doom
(National) Prohibition Party
1905. Journalistic Slang
Reminiscent of a shovel-like utensil, what is the popular term for an exclusive story that only one news outlet is covering?
scoop
1906. Wind Instruments
Although the saxophone is usually made of brass, it is classified as a woodwind instrument because it produces sound through the vibration of which of its components?
reed
1907. 2
The Santa Barbara Archipelago is off the coast of what state?
California
1908. Zero Points
Either the point for zero on a number line or the point for (0,0) in a coordinate plane is called the ...
origin
1909. Machines
What simple machine is incorporated in shovels, tongs, fishing rods, staplers, and bottle openers?
lever
1910. The Senate
What officer of the U.S. Senate has no vote unless there is a tie?
vice president
1911. Soils
What two layers in a soil profile make up the solum?
A and B horizons
1912. Plant Reproduction
Name the reproductive structures that grow underneath the fronds of ferns.
spores
1913. Symbiosis
Tapeworms live in the intestines of people or animals. This is terrific for the tapeworms but not so hot for the host. Name this type of relationship.
parasitism
1914. Firsts
In Greek myth, Pandora was the first ...
woman
1915. Natural Gas
About 10% of natural gas is propane and butane, another 10% consists of ethane, and the other 80% is
methane
1916. Short Stories
Who wrote the short story, 'The Black Cat'?
Edgar Allan Poe
1917. Locus of Points
What is the equation for a line describing the locus of points equidistant from the lines whose equations are as follows? y =3x-1 yu3xn-+s
y=3x+2
1918. Physics Limericks
What is the last word in this limerick? There was a young lady from Bright Whose speed was much faster than light. She set out one day In a relative way And arrived the previous ...
night
1919. Clauses
What type of dependent clause is used in the predicate of this sentence? Santa will come when he is needed.
adverbial
1920. The Caribbean
You are coloring a map of the Caribbean island countries. How many colors do you need so that all countries touching one-another will be colored
differently?
1921. Heavenly Bodies
The volume of these heavenly objects exceeds that of any other member of our solar system, yet their masses are minute. Name them.
comets
1922. Early Coalitions
James Winthrop of Massachusetts, Melancton Smith of New York, and Patrick Henry and George Mason of Virginia were among the people who opposed ratification of the Constitution. How were the members of this coalition known?
antifederalists
1923. Ballots
Reminiscent of a continental country, what is another name for a secret ballot?
Australian ballot
1924. Hyperventilation
Hyperventilation lowers the concentration of what gas in the blood?
carbon dioxide
1925. Foot Problems
What life form causes athlete's foot?
fungus
1926. Gargantuan Dinosaurs
In 1995, dinosaur experts noted that a previously unknown, enormous dinosaur had been unearthed in Argentina. Name this creature believed to be about two tons heavier than the next largest meat eater, tyrannosaurus rex.
Gigantosaurus carolinii
1927. Color
Alternating blue and yellow parallel lines of equal width drawn close together appear as what color when held at a modest distance?
green
1928. Historical Fiction
The name of what town completes this title of a story by Patricia Clapp set in 17th-century Massachusetts? Witches' Children: A Story of...
Salem
1929. Walks of Life
What is the occupation of a person whose job it is to assess public opinion by asking people what they think about an issue?
pollster
1930. Cinematic Anagrams
'Eagers' is an anagram for what high-energy musical production about high school students?
Grease
1931. The Inner Ear
Name either of the tiny fluid-filled chambers of the inner ear containing otoliths, tiny grains of calcium carbonate.
saccule, utricle
1932. Voting
Every time a person changes residence, he or she must re-register to vote. Failure to do so results in temporarily losing one's right to vote. Losing one's right to vote is called ...
disfranchisement
1933. Invasions
Italians under what dictator invaded Abyssinia in 1935?
Benito Mussolini
1934. Rights
In government, the term 'franchise' refers to the rights of individuals to do what?
vote
1935. Investment Fraud
You just found out that the Home Fusion Corporation into which you invested $8000 is actually a sham operation. You should issue a complaint to what agency of the federal government?
Securities and Exchange Commission
1936. European Mountains
Name the irregular mountain system of south central Europe which occupies most of Switzerland and parts of four other countries.
Alps
1937. Art Forms
The name for what art form was derived from two Japanese words meaning 'to fold' and 'paper'?
origami
1938. U
The headwaters of the Pecos River, a tributary of the Rio Grande, are in what state?
New Mexico
1939. Martyrs
Joan of Arc was sentenced to what form of capital punishment?
burning at the stake
1940. Marine Life
Although they live as solitary organisms, they may live in immense colonies. Name these animals with exoskeletons of calcium carbonate.
coral
1941. Agricultural Exports
From 1617 to 1793, what was the most valuable staple export from the region that included England's American mainland colonies and then the United States?
tobacco
1942. Mining
What element composes the most valuable gemstone mined in South Africa?
carbon
1943. Mining
What is the general name for the type of mining that involves removing surface material to reveal seams of ore beneath?
strip mining
1944. It's Only Logical
What non-standard contraction completes this line uttered by Lewis Carroll's Tweedledee when he was explaining logic? If it was so, it might be, and, if it were so, it would be, but as it isn't, it ...
ain't
1945. Ancient Literature
With what ancient civilization are these literary works associated? Creation Epic The Elevation of Ishtar Ishtar's Descent into Hades Gilgamesh
Babylonia
1946. State Histories
The history of what state is associated with Sanford Dole, William McKinley, and Queen Liliuokalani?
Hawaii
1947. Inventions
The invention of what engine, originally developed for draining mines but rapidly put to use in factories, occurred during the Industrial Revolution?
steam engine
1948. Military Formations
Name the military formation developed by Philip II of Macedon and used by Alexander the Great in which the troops carry overlapping shields and long spears.
phalanx
1949. Wounds
The risk of tetanus is high with what category of wounds?
puncture wound
1950. Plumage
What is the term for a showy growth of feathers on a bird's head?
topknot (crest, tuft)
1951. Generals
When James Polk delivered his war message to Congress in 1846, what general took command of U.S. troops that captured Tampico and occupied El Paso?
Winfield Scott
1952. Novels
In Ralph Ellison's 'Invisible Man,' the protagonist works for a time for an apparently communist organization known as what?
the Brotherhood
1953. Heat Injuries
First-degree burns usually extend only into what layer of skin?
epidermis
1954. Prefix Puns
What geometrical instrument completes this pun? I'm not against using a tractor. The fact of the matter is that I'm ...
protractor
1955. Blood Banks
When whole blood is collected from a donor, what kind of substance must be added to it to prevent it from turning into a semisolid or solid mass?
anticoagulant
1956. Disease
Alice the anthropologist contracted breakbone fever in the Brazilian jungles two years ago. Periodically, ever since, its symptoms have resurfaced. What is the term for each such recurrence?
relapse
1957. Defenses
Ralph told the court he could not possibly have set the Malibu fires because he was locked inside the Biosphere Dome in Arizona at the time the fires occurred. What is the name for such an excuse proving the physical impossibility that a suspect could have committed a crime?
alibi
1958. Gases
What gas is given off when inorganic acids and bases are mixed?
hydrogen
1959. Voting
If Sandy was born in 1985, what was the first year that she would have been eligible to vote in a U.S. federal election?
2003
1960. First Ladies
This is about whom? Some difficulties arose after her husband's election. She was accused of extravagance and disloyalty to the Union cause. Her mind was weakened by the loss of three of her four sons and by the terrible assassination.
Mrs. (Mary) Lincoln
1961. Musical Instruments
In Tchaikovsky's 'War of 1812,' what family of musical instruments did he use to portray the sounds of cannon fire and bombs bursting?
percussion
1962. U
What mountain range is immediately west of the Great Basin?
Sierra Nevada
1963. Cube Surface Areas
A cube contains 125 cubic inches. In square inches, what is its total surface area?
150
1964. Boxing History
Bare-knuckle boxing had its last and most memorable bout in 1889 when Jake Kilrain was finally knocked out in the 75th round of the U.S. heavyweight championship by whom?
John L. Sullivan
1965. Wars
The bicentennial of the war in which the British burned many public buildings in Washington D.C. occurred in what year?
2012
1966. Elements
The symbol 'K' stands for what element?
potassium
1967. Colonial Births
The first English child born in America had the same first name as which colony?
Virginia
1968. Famous Women
After escaping slavery, who led fifteen trips to the South and brought hundreds of blacks to freedom in the North and Canada via the Underground Railroad?
Harriet Tubman
1969. Fossils
Their oval flattened bodies consisted of a head covered by a semicircular dorsal shield and a thorax and abdomen, protected by overlapping dorsal plates. Their heads bore a pair of antenna-like appendages and a pair of compound eyes. Name these extinct marine arthropods.
trilobites
1970. Medieval Mechanisms
Name the machine that harnesses the energy of flowing water to grind grain or power machinery that was widely used in medieval Europe.
water wheel
1971. Eruptions
Popocatepetl, an enormous volcano that reawakened in 1994 and has been spewing ash intermittently ever since is in what country?
Mexico
1972. Stars
Which type of star emits brief but intense bursts of radio waves at regular intervals?
pulsars (neutron stars)
1973. Satellites
What moon of Saturn is named after the mythical woman who released all the ills and evils from a container with which she had been entrusted?
Pandora
1974. Chemical Compounds
Name the simplest structural unit that displays the characteristic physical and chemical properties of a compound.
molecule
1975. Roman Professions
What was the profession of the man honored with this epitaph? The Myrmillo, opponent of the Retiarius, Probus, freedman of Publius Aurelius Vitalis, 49 times a winner, lies here. Volumnia Sperata, in honor of her affectionate husband, made the monument. May the earth be light upon you.
gladiator
1976. Wildlife
What kind of mammals are these? klipspringer, bushbuck, chamois, oribi, gemsbok, sassaby, steenbok, kob, impala
antelope
1977. Verbs
What kind of verbs are illustrated in these examples? -After losing the cribbage match of the century, Ron became morose. -The auk in the wedding dress looked radiant.
linking verbs
1978. Drums
In speaking of aggression, Arthur Koestler says the most persistent sound which reverberates through man's history is the beating of what kind of drums?
war drums
1979. Midwest City Namesakes
A city in what state was named after the French Canadian settler Julien Dubuque?
lowa
1980. Officers
What is the title of the presiding member of the Supreme Court?
chief justice
1981. Presidential Initiatives
This is about what U.S. president? He flexed America's muscles for all nations to see by parading the U.S. Navy fleet around the world in 1908.
Theodore Roosevelt
1982. Gerund Phrases
How is the gerund phrase used in this example? His mistake was flying too close to the Sun.
predicate nominative
1983. Tough Deaths
Scott's 'The Bride of Lammermoor' and Hugo's 'Toilers of the Sea' describe awful deaths occurring when people step onto what sedimentary material that cannot support weight because its grains are held apart by water?
quicksand
1984. Inventors
The last name of what American inventor of plow blades is a homophone for a hoofed and antlered ruminant?
Deere
1985. 5
What does an anthropometrist concentrate on measuring?
human body (people, man)
1986. Asian Rivers
The mouth of China's Yellow River is in what sea?
Yellow Sea
1987. Deserts
The northern reaches of Petrified Forest National Park extend into the heart of a colorful fantasyland of mesas, buttes, and badlands. This region of Arizona stained by mineralized water is known as what desert?
Painted Desert
1988. Authors
What general category of literature was mainly produced by these authors? Alfred Tennyson Omar Khayyam Henry Longfellow Robert Burns
poetry
1989. Etiquette
Who was born in Baltimore in 1872 and grew up to become America's foremost expert and writer on the topic of etiquette?
Emily Post
1990.
Three is the atomic number of what element?
lithium
1991. Snakes
The common name for what snake of the American Southeast is a reference to its white mouth that becomes visible when it gapes to frighten predators or prepare for a strike?
cottonmouth
1992. Blacksmithing
A blacksmith uses what tool consisting of two arms joined at a fulcrum to hold hot metal?
tongs
1993. Symbols
What elderly man is the personification of time?
Father Time
1994. Literature
Novels, novellas, and short stories are subcategories what broad genre?
fiction
1995. 3
In what mountainous European country were these inventions developed? Velcro white chocolate bank secrecy bobsledding cellophane a pocket knife manufactured by Victorinox
Switzerland
1996. American Colonies
Sir William Berkeley became the royal governor of which British colony in America?
Virginia
1997. Sumeria
Our system of time based on a sixty-minute hour was derived from a Sumerian mathematical system, as is our method of dividing a circle into how many degrees?
360
1998. Muscles
Normal tension of muscles is called muscle ...
tone (tonus)
1999. Early Explorers
Exploration of Pierre-Esprit Radisson and Medard des Groseilliers led to the formation of what early North American corporation?
Hudson's Bay Company
2000. Elimination
Name the process by which mammals eliminate metabolic wastes from their bodies.
excretion
2001. Big Snakes
What kind of nonvenomous snakes native to India and parts of Southeast Asia have become an environmental threat to wildlife in the Florida Everglades?
pythons
2002. Algebraic Multiplication
What is the product of (x+3y) and (x-8y)?
xX squared - 5xy - 24(y squared)
2003. Insects
Name the primary olfactory sensors of insects.
antennae
2004. Victories
V-E Day was the day of victory for the Allies in World War II in the European theater while the day of victory for the Allies in the Pacific theater was called
V-J Day
2005. Constitutional Changes
The amendment making 18 the legal voting age in the U.S. was passed during what war?
Vietnam War
2006. Holocaust Literature
This passage is from what work by Elie Wiesel? Never shall I forget that night, the first night in camp, which has turned my life into one long night, seven times cursed and seven times sealed. Never shall I forget those moments which murdered my God and my soul and turned my dreams to dust.
Night
2007. Painting History
With what movement centered in Paris were these painters associated in the early 1900s? Georges Braque Henri Matisse Juan Gris Fernande Leger
cubism
2008. Word Stems
What word that means 'side' may be preceded by prefixes such as 'multi,' 'uni,' 'bi,' and 'equi'?
lateral
2009. Scientists
These people were in what field of science? Giovanni Schiaparelli Percival Lowell Johannes Kepler Tycho Brahe Edmund Halley George Hale
astronomy
2010. Evidence
Statements made or evidence produced by a suspect which help prove that he is himself guilty of some crime is called self ...
incrimination
2011. Drag
Viscous drag is the force that retards a solid object moving through what form of matter?
liquid
2012. Fungus Photography
In a photo, you see what looks like a cloud emerging from the top of a puffball. What does that cloud consist of?
spores
2013. International Relations
What organization was the immediate predecessor of the United Nations?
League of Nations
2014. Aerodynamics
The shaping of an object so that it offers the least possible resistance to the fluid it is moving through is called ...
streamlining
2015. Scientific Laws
What scientific law states that the amount of energy in the universe today is identical to the amount of energy that was in the universe when the first diatoms appeared?
law of conservation of energy
2016. Cosines
As an angle increases from zero to ninety degrees, what happens to the cosine of the angle?
cosine decreases
2017. Technology
Complete this quote by Arthur Clarke. Any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from ...
magic
2018. Political Jargon
What phrase from basketball is used in a political sense to indicate an all-out effort?
full-court press
2019. Volcanoes
Most volcanoes in South America have formed in the vicinity of the juncture of the South American plate and what other plate?
Nazca plate
2020. North Africa
The southern border of what country is adjacent to Niger, Chad, and Sudan?
Libya
2021. Prepositions
What is the first preposition in 'America the Beautiful'?
for
2022. Taxonomy
What kind of pet is a Felis domesticus?
(house) cat
2023. Fictional Heroes
This hero undertakes a hasty world tour as the result of a bet made at his London club. His valet is Passepartout. Name the hero.
Phileas Fogg
2024. Spoonerisms
What word indicating holes drilled in the ground to obtain oil or water can be added to this line to make it a spoonerism? I hear bedding ...
wells
2025. Educational Malapropisms
What word should the writer of this line have used? The amount of education you have determines your loot in life.
lot
2026. Circles
3.1416 times the radius squared yields what information about a circle?
its area
2027. Organs
Name either of the two organs surrounded by the pia mater and dura mater.
brain, spinal cord
2028. Soviet Agencies
By what name did the West refer to the Soviet organization called the 'Komitet Gosudarstvennoe Bezopasnosti'?
KGB
2029. Empires
At its height in the 16th century, the empire of what European nation included the island of Cape Verde, Madeira, the Azores, the Moluccas, and narrow strips of land on the east and west coasts of Africa?
Portugal
2030. Theater
Theatrical makeup that is impervious to heat or perspiration is generically called ...
greasepaint
2031. Aviation
Name the device that controls the motions of airplanes in flight without the constant supervision of man.
automatic pilot (autopilot)
2032. Empires
Malta, Hong Kong, Aden, Singapore, and South Africa were all part of what empire?
British Empire
2033. Ancient Regions
Name the ancient Asian region between the Tigris and Euphrates largely included by the modern country of Iraq.
Mesopotamia
2034. Transportation Homonyms
What name is shared by a boat-shaped passenger car on an airship, a railroad freight car without a top, and a long, narrow, flat-bottomed Venetian boat?
gondola
2035. Novel Settings
According to William Faulkner, Boon Hoggenbeck stole the first car in what county?
Yoknapatawpha County
2036. Defeats
The military of what country overwhelmed American forces on the Bataan Peninsula?
Japan
2037. Space Programs
What American space program was named after a sign of the zodiac also known as the Twins?
Gemini
2038. Biological Abbreviations
For what does the abbreviation stand below? RBCs are concave in shape, recycled in the liver, and transport oxygen.
red blood cells
2039. The Constitution
What adjective meaning 'greatest' or 'paramount' is missing in this line? Article VI provides that the Constitution and all federal laws and treaties shall be the ---- law of the land.
supreme
2040. Asian History
In 1972, Ceylon became an independent nation under what new name meaning 'resplendent island'?
Sri Lanka
2041. Creatures Below
This quote from '20,000 Leagues Under the Sea' is about what creature? It swam crossways in the direction of the Nautilus with great speed, watching us with its enormous staring green eyes. The arms fixed to its head were twice as long as its body, and were twisted like the furies' hair.
giant squid
2042. Calendars
The official calendar of what nation starts in the year 3761 B.C.?
Israel
2043. Marine Life
Sponges strain water to obtain bits of food. Therefore, they are known as what kind of feeders?
filter feeders
2044. Stars
For a star moving at tremendous speed toward Earth, its spectrum appears shifted toward what color?
blue
2045. Forms of Music
How are these songs classified? Barbara Ellen Where Have All the Flowers Gone When Johnny Comes Marching Home Old Folks at Home
folk songs
2046. Fortifications
During World War II, the Germans built what line of fortifications in Italy from the Tyrrhenian Sea in the west, through the Apennines, to the Adriatic coast in the east?
Gustav Line
2047. Shadows
What happens to the shadow as the light source behind the object making the shadow becomes wider?
shadow becomes more blurred (hazy, indistinct)
2048. Lightning Misnomers
What is a common name for a lightning flash that appears to produce no thunder because it occurs so far away that the sound waves dissipate before they reach the observer?
heat lightning
2049. Traffic Law Enforcement
A place where speed limits are enforced by police waiting in concealment to catch motorists who are traveling too fast is called a ...
speed trap
2050. Boating Vocabulary
What verb indicates what happens when an accelerating boat rises partly out of the water at high speeds?
planing
2051. Idioms
The idiom for a person whose reckless speech endangers the welfare or efforts of others is a loose what?
cannon
2052. Habitats
Noted for their distinct animal species such as the giant land tortoise, the flightless cormorant, and the marine iguana, name these islands off South America's western coast.
Galapagos Islands
2053. Massive Projects
Name the greatest dam in the region once ruled by people including Hatshepsut, Thutmose, and Tutankhamen.
Aswan (Aswan High Dam)
2054. Complements
What is the subject complement in this line? They were the only ones in the room with me.
ones
2055. Age Problems
How old is Eve if she is twice as old as Adam, and 3 years from now, the sum of their ages will be 42?
24
2056. Bays
Chesapeake Bay was formed when a river mouth was drowned by ocean water. This bay can also be described as an ...
estuary
2057. Brain Injuries
A cerebral contusion is essentially what kind of an injury to the brain?
a bruise
2058. Binary Numbers
As a binary numeral, express the number of digits on one hand.
101
2059. A Christmas Carol
The sign above the door to Ebenezer Scrooge's business read 'Scrooge and ...'
Marley
2060. Presidents
This is about what 20th-century U.S. commander in chief? One tragedy forced him into the presidency and another drove him out.
Lyndon Johnson
2061. Villains
What character in Uncle Tom's Cabin is known for his whips and bloodhounds?
Simon Legree
2062. Fringe Benefits
What word that rhymes with 'quirks' refers to benefits in addition to regular wages or salary?
perks (perquisite)
2063. Voting
Someone with a summer home in New Hampshire, a winter home in Arizona, and businesses in both Vermont and New Mexico could be a registered voter for a national election in how many precincts?
one
2064. Short Stories
Name the tale by Poe which takes place on Sullivan's Island about a cipher related to Captain Kidd's treasure.
The Gold Bug
2065. Science Talk
'Periodic' describes an event occurring at regular intervals. What is the noun form of this term?
periodicity
2066. Cartography
Cartographers use a grid system to locate places on Earth. The system makes use of imaginary crisscrossing lines called parallels and ...
meridians
2067. It's Only Natural
This indicates what natural process? If a fluid is made warmer, it becomes lighter and starts to rise. If it gets cooler, it becomes heavier and sinks.
convection
2068. Crispy Creatures
What monster was so distraught upon learning of his creator's death that he burned himself alive in 'the northernmost extremity of the globe'?
Frankenstein's monster
2069. Crime
Marion found a checkbook on the sidewalk and decided to sign the owner's name to one of those checks in payment for a stereo. That signing made her guilty of what crime?
forgery
2070. Trails
The Overland Trail passed over what extensive ridge, on either side of which streams flow in essentially opposite directions?
Continental Divide
2071. Homologous Structures
What structures on birds are homologous to the hooves of horses and deer?
claws (talons)
2072.
Thanks to plate tectonics, which of the world's great oceans is slowly becoming smaller?
Pacific Ocean
2073. Wheeling and Dealing
In 1801, President Jefferson learned that what European leader had secretly reacquired the Louisiana Territory from Spain?
Napoleon
2074. Representation
All the people residing in a legislator's district comprise his what?
constituency
2075. Mythical Names
What name is shared by these mythical beings? -the shipwright who built the Argo for Jason -a monster of 100 eyes slain by Hermes -the faithful dog of Odysseus
Argus
2076. Political Affiliations
Fewer than five percent of the Chinese people are members of what political organization that has absolute control over that nation's government?
Communist Party
2077. Modifiers
There are two ways to form superlative modifiers. One is to add the letters 'est' to the end of the word. The other is to precede it with what other word?
most (least)
2078. History of India
In 1707, following the death of Aurangzeb, the Mogul Dynasty in India began to crumble after almost two centuries of power. In the next 150 years, the Moguls lost their authority to what European nation?
Great Britain (England)
2079. Verbs
What kind of verbs form their past tenses and past participles by a vowel changes?
irregular (strong) verbs
2080. Travertine
The travertine deposited along streams and hot springs is a variety of what kind of sedimentary rock?
limestone
2081. Stars
Name the kind of large-scale aggregates of stars that often have spiral arms.
galaxies
2082. Atom Nuclei
Each atomic nucleus consists of one or more protons and one or more neutrons, with the exception of what one element?
hydrogen (or deuterium)
2083. Bad Relations
The competitive buildup of nuclear weapons between the U.S. and the U.S.S.R. during the Cold War was known as what kind of race?
arms race
2084. Northern Europe
In the Benelux countries, Belgium has a king, the Netherlands has a queen, and there is a grand duke in
Luxembourg
2085. Mining
Mining operations deal with two categories of materials. In lode deposits, minerals occur in veins, layers, or as particles in rock masses. What kind of deposits consist of minerals in unconsolidated materials such as river gravels or beach sands?
placer deposits
2086. Literary Geography
What country is the setting for this work? On the Pampas
Argentina
2087. Plant Anatomy
The apical meristem of a plant is located at both the tip of a shoot or stem and where else?
tip of a root
2088. Hostages
Fifty-two American hostages held by followers of the Ayatollah Khomeini were finally released on the last day of whose presidency?
Jimmy Carter's
2089. Politics
Name the member of a political party whose main task is to enforce party solidarity among congressmen?
whip
2090. Bygone Political Parties
In 1841, Thomas Dorr founded the People's Party to liberalize the constitution of what state?
Rhode Island
2091. Symbols
In metals, it is represented by quicksilver. In precious stones, it is represented by amethyst. In planets, it stands for Mercury. Name this color associated with justice and royalty.
purple (violet)
2092. Cities
In what state are these cities located? Pierre Sioux Falls Brookings
South Dakota
2093. Joints
What type of joint is illustrated by the knee?
hinge
2094.
The embryos of higher vertebrates have a notochord. What develops from this structure?
spinal (vertebral) column
2095. Cells
What kind of cells contain axons?
neurons (nerve cells)
2096. Alkanes
Name either of the two alkanes most commonly used as bottled gas fuel.
propane, butane
2097. Acids
What organic acid gives limes their tart taste?
citric acid
2098. Herculean Labors
In the first of his twelve labors, what kind of creature did Hercules strangle?
lion (Nemean lion)
2099. Medical History
In the 1930s, it was determined that blood could be separated into red blood cells and what clear, yellowish fluid?
plasma
2100. Nullification
Name the extreme form of nullification in which a U.S. state would terminate its political affiliation with the Union.
secession
2101. Capital Cities
Name the capital of the state due west of the state in which Raleigh is the capital.
Nashville
2102. Bulbous Herbs
Garlic consists of a cluster of bulblets called ...
cloves
2103. Monarchies
What Moslem monarchy was a key staging area for the multinational force that liberated Kuwait during the Persian Gulf War?
Saudi Arabia
2104. Crime
What crime is most typically associated with pyromaniacs?
arson
2105. Machines
What kind of simple machine may have only one sloping plane as in a carpenter's plane or two as in a knife blade?
wedge
2106. Modifiers
What is the squinting modifier in this example? He clearly said yesterday he lost his prize emu.
yesterday
2107. Discussion
To insist on talking about something that no one is interested in or about something already been completely discussed is to beat a dead what?
horse
2108. Systemic Diseases
Which body system is affected by pneumonia?
respiratory system
2109. Civil War
What was the complete name adopted for their new nation by the southern states that seceded from the union?
Confederate States of America
2110. Economics
Sarah got a copy of 'Attack of the Killer Tomatoes' in exchange for her yo-yo. Gina traded her snorkel for a bowling ball. These deals illustrate what form of exchange?
barter (trade, swap)
2111. Game Numbers
Add the number of squares on a checkerboard to the number of squares on a chess board.
164
2112. Gliding
A glider pilot who sees no dust devils or clouds must rely to some degree on luck to locate rising streams of warm air called ...
thermals (updrafts)
2113. Journeys
What is the term for the special journeys made to such places as Canterbury Cathedral, Delphi, Mecca, and the Wailing Wall?
pilgrimages
2114. Special Seats
What kind of seats are in fighter aircraft that throw a pilot clear of a damaged aircraft?
ejector (ejection) seats
2115. Brain Waves
The long, slow brain waves characteristic of a relaxed state are named by which letter of the Greek alphabet?
alpha
2116. Battles
The capture of what hill in the Spanish-American War was important because it overlooked the harbor of Santiago de Cuba?
San Juan Hill
2117. Oceanography
What small body of water separates a barrier reef from the mainland?
lagoon
2118. European Waterways
The mouth of the Seine River is in what channel?
English Channel
2119. Electronics
Name the ability of a capacitor to store a charge.
capacitance
2120. Poems
This is from what poem? He has sounded forth the trumpet that shall never call retreat; He is sifting out the hearts of men before His judgment-seat: Oh, be swift, my soul, to answer Him! be jubilant, my feet! Our God is marching on.
Battle Hymn of the Republic
2121. Wildlife
A species of animal that is not endangered but may become so in the near future is described as being ...
threatened
2122. Catastrophic Events
So there you are on the beach in front of the Honolulu Hilton when the water suddenly pulls away from the shore and disappears over the horizon. This is the first warning that what is on its way?
tsunami (seismic sea or tidal wave)
2123. Venom
The venom of what spider found throughout the continental U.S. is up to 15 times as potent as that of rattlesnakes?
black widow
2124. Electrical Resistance
In what type of electrical circuit can the resistance be calculated as the sum of the individual resistances of its elements?
series circuit
2125. Pronouns
What pronoun is used in the objective case in this example? Although I loathed his every advance, whenever my bank account was getting low, there was never an occasion when I hesitated to send him an alluring invitation to dinner.
him
2126. Collaboration
What is the legal term for an unlawful, secret, treacherous, or surreptitious plan to perform an illegal act?
conspiracy
2127. Syllabication
Divide 'prejudice' into syllables.
prej-u-dice
2128. Mining
The principal vein or zone of veins of gold or silver ore is known as what lode?
mother lode
2129. Science in Art
In an imaginative portrait, William Blake depicts Isaac Newton calculating how the universe is held together by the law of...
gravitation
2130. Fossils
Many fossils of saber-toothed cats have been found in what tar pits of Los Angeles, California?
La Brea Tar Pits
2131. The Ocean Floor
Name he long, narrow, extraordinarily deep depressions of the sea floor such as those found near the Aleutians, Japan, the Philippines, Puerto Rico, and Chile.
trenches
2132. Fruit Hybrids
The name for the hybrid resulting from crossing a mandarin with an orange is shared with what heroine of an American folksong whose shoes were number nine?
Clementine
2133. Anatomy
Name the column of nervous tissue that runs through the backbone.
spinal column
2134. Medical Adjectives
To what two bones does the term 'radiohumeral' refer?
radius, humerus
2135. Plutons
Concordant plutons result from the injection of molten rock parallel to pre-existing strata. What kind of plutons result from molten material that cuts across preexisting strata?
discordant plutons
2136. Presidential Powers
The power of the U.S. president to put people into federal offices is called the power of what?
appointment (patronage)
2137. Mideast History
King Faisal I became the first king of Iraq in 1921. Until then, this region had been known by what other name?
Mesopotamia
2138. Sculpture
What material used in classical sculpture is a metamorphic rock derived from limestone that is composed mainly of a crystalline form of calcium carbonate?
marble
2139. New Fruits
Although brought to Europe from South America in 1596, what plants with red edible fruit were erroneously considered poisonous and not widely consumed until about 200 years later?
tomatoes
2140. The Brain
Name the gray, outer layer of the brain in which thought processing and all forms of conscious experience take place.
cerebral cortex
2141. The Medieval Military
What soldiers of the Middle Ages were supposed to act with military courtesy, protect the weak and defenseless, and fight for the general welfare of all?
knights
2142. Energy
With respect to heat and light, the opposite of absorption is ...
radiation (reflection)
2143. Water
Which element is associated with water hardness?
calcium (magnesium)
2144.
What desert is about 500 miles east of the Canary Islands?
Sahara Desert
2145. Ecology
A plant community that no longer undergoes changes in species composition due to succession is known as what kind of community?
climax community
2146. Shooting Safety
In recreational shooting, what two pieces of protective gear should you routinely wear?
eye and ear protection
2147. Impounded Waters
What do Australians call an oxbow lake?
billabong
2148. Political Slang
A wealthy political donor is sometimes referred to as what kind of cat?
fat cat
2149. Plant Stuff
What is the common name for the liquid inside xylem and phloem cells that contains water, sugars, and dissolved minerals?
sap
2150. Perimeters
What is the perimeter of a nonagon if each side is seven centimeters?
63 centimeters
2151. Mass Media
In the course of a single hour, his Martians landed on Earth, constructed some deadly heat-ray machines, defeated the American Army, and occupied large sections of the country. Name this stage and radio actor of the 1930s who panicked thousands.
Orson Welles
2152. Snakes
Coral snakes have black and red bands separated by stripes of what color?
yellow
2153. Extinct Animals
These extinct creatures all belong to what class of vertebrates? diplodocus, iguanodon, triceratops
Reptilia (reptile)
2154. Fundamental Geography
In relation to elevation, what is the most commonly used datum plane?
sea level
2155. Medical Examinations
An arthrogram is an x-ray technique for examining the interior of ...
joints
2156. Whales
What is another name for the killer whale?
orca
2157. Minerals
What hard, brittle mineral found in nodules in limestone or shale deposits was used to create a spark and discharge early firearms?
flint
2158. European Leaders
Who headed up the new government of Spain at the end of the Spanish Civil War?
Francisco Franco
2159. Lofty Goals
In what document are these goals set forth? -promote the general welfare -provide for the common defense -insure domestic tranquility -establish justice
the Constitution
2160. Fortresses
In what state was a fort built on a small island and named after General Thomas Sumter?
South Carolina
2161. Asian Weather
In India and Bangladesh, among other places, air over the land heats up in the summer and rises. Cool, wet air from the ocean blows in to take its place, bringing heavy rains. Name these winds.
monsoons
2162. Big Battles
The Battle of Leyte Gulf was provoked by U.S. landings on what island in the Philippines?
Leyte
2163. Marine Adages
An old adage warns people not to consume mussels
during months with what letter in them?
2164. Earth Science
Name the upper part of the regolith that contains humus.
soil (top soil, 'A horizon')
2165. Compasses
The primary points of a compass are the ---- points.
cardinal
2166. Enforcing Isolation
Name the technique in which a port is isolated by positioning ships to keep people and supplies from moving in or out.
blockade
2167. 2
In what part of the body are these ligaments located? palmar radiocarpal ligament dorsal radiocarpal ligament ulnar collateral ligament radial collateral ligament
wrist (lower arm)
2168. Medical Devices
To inject fluids into or withdraw fluids from the body, a syringe is used in conjunction with what kind of needle?
hypodermic needle
2169. Computers
Data on a computer screen are automatically moved upward and out of sight as new lines of data are added at the bottom. What is this called?
scrolling
2170. Homophones
Spell the homophone for a portion of a circle that sounds the same as the name for a commodious vessel.
arc
2171.
The Constitution includes what phrase to specify the kind of citizen one must be to become president of the United States?
natural born
2172. Resistors
What can be said about the voltage of all resistors in a parallel circuit?
The voltage is equal.
2173. Capital Cities
Name the capital of the province in which the Klondike is located.
Whitehorse
2174. Military Messages
For what does the abbreviation stand in this? An EAM is a message directing nuclear-capable forces to execute specific attack options in a nuclear war.
emergency action message
2175. Ancient Literary Forms
Dating back to at least the 6th century B.C., what is the name for brief stories illustrating human tendencies through animal characters?
fables
2176. Governmental Programs
What executive department is responsible for administering federal health-care programs?
Health and Human Services
2177. The Water Deficit
During which season is the water deficit greatest in the American Southwest?
summer
2178. Earth Science Adjectives
Something which is aeolian is borne, deposited, produced, or eroded by what?
wind
2179. Distance Problems
A car traveling 60 miles per hour requires 40 minutes less time to cover a distance than a car going 45 miles per hour. What is the distance?
120 miles
2180. Fictional Wounds
In 'The Lord of the Rings,' Frodo is wounded in the shoulder by what weapon?
knife (dagger)
2181. U
What lake in the western United States covers some 2100 square miles with an average depth of 13 feet?
Great Salt Lake
2182. Fighting Words
What word completes this quote by Marshal Foch at a critical time during World War I? My right flank has fallen. My left flank is weakening. The situation is excellent. I am ...
attacking
2183. Fossils
What are the preserved impressions of prehistoric organisms called?
casts (molds)
2184. Aviation History
The first widespread use of aerial warfare occurred during what war?
World War |
2185. Historical Novels
These are historical novels about what European people? Styrbiorn the Strong The Golden Horn The Long Ships Vinland Odin's Wolves
Vikings (Norsemen)
2186. Asian Emperors
The empire of the Huns quickly fell apart after the death of their greatest leader named ...
Attila
2187. Geological News
For the first time, geologists extracted intact rock samples in 2007 from two miles deep within what infamous rupture that runs 800 miles along the length of California?
San Andreas Fault
2188. Vocabulary
Creation of unusual new words such as 'boatomania' or 'stupiditis' is called ...
coining (neologisms)
2189. Rockets
Name the propulsive force of a rocket engine.
thrust
2190. Asian Seas
What sea is between Korea and Japan?
Sea of Japan
2191. Weight
Weight is the product of the acceleration due to gravity and ...
mass
2192. Entertainment
Name the floating, self-propelled theaters of the 19th century that brought plays and vaudeville to people along the great rivers of the Midwest.
showboats
2193. Amendments
The 26th Amendment granted the right to vote to people at what three age levels?
18, 19, 20
2194. Clerihews
What form of wordplay is used in the last line of this clerihew? Roddy MacDowell, Trying to get fitted for his Ape character, threw in the towel. The suit was too small (he'd apparently acquired a case of the chunkies), And he finally said, 'Anything's more fun than apparel of monkeys!'
pun
2195. Power Plants
What adjective describes those power plants at the base of dams?
hydroelectric
2196. Symptoms
What is the term for an abnormal general swelling of the abdominal area?
bloating
2197. Exercise
What calisthenic exercises are similar to sit-ups but involve only repeated shorter movements of the abdominals?
crunches
2198. Natural Lakes
Donner Lake in California, Flathead Lake in Montana, Mille Lacs Lake in Minnesota are examples of meltwater lakes dammed by accumulations of unconsolidated debris called what?
moraines
2199. Flowering Plants
Some varieties grow to heights of 15 feet. Name these plants of the daisy family cultivated for their edible seeds used for bird and poultry feed and as a source of vegetable oil.
sunflowers
2200. Ocean Currents
What is a one-word synonym for a rip current?
undertow (rip tide)
2201. Violins
Against what part of a violin do players press the strings in order to vary the pitch?
fingerboard
2202. Hospitals
In a hospital setting, for what does the 'E' stand in these related abbreviations? ED ER A&E
emergency
2203. Light
To the nearest minute, how long does it take light to travel a distance of 90 million miles?
8 minutes
2204. Concessions
In 1997, what country made its first official admission that it had acted as the chief banker and money launderer for the Nazis?
Switzerland
2205. Historical Passages
To whom does this quote refer? Rather than go into exile, he chose to accept the death penalty which consisted of drinking a cup of hemlock.
Socrates
2206. Punishments
The caning or whipping with the cat used on 18th-century sailing ships was a kind of corporal punishment called ...
flogging
2207. Mythic Men
The name of what Scandinavian mythological figure means 'thunder'?
Thor
2208. The Old West
Immigrants traveling from Missouri to New Mexico in the mid-19th century mainly followed what trail?
Santa Fe Trail
2209. Homophones
Spell the term meaning a device in which laundry is pressed between rollers to extract water that is a homophone for a horseshoe thrown so it encircles the stake.
wringer
2210. Wartime Literature
Alun Lewis' poem, 'After Dunkirk,' is about what war?
World War Il
2211. Poisons
If you are sitting in a parked car with the engine running, you should have at least one window open. Otherwise, what poisonous, colorless, odorless gas might accumulate in the vehicle?
carbon monoxide
2212. History of Geometry
Name the Greek geometrician who determined the value of pi to the third decimal place.
Archimedes
2213. Fuels
What is the term for a liquid fuel derived from natural gas, coal, oil shale, tar sand, or the fermentation of biomass?
synfuel
2214. Knights
According to various accounts, what honorary knight of the Round Table was swallowed by a raven, eaten by a fish, and accidentally baked into a pudding by his mother?
Tom Thumb
2215. Air Masses
Maritime air masses form over what?
water (oceans)
2216. Plant Classification
Any plant can be uniquely classified by using a combination of its genus and ...
species
2217. Modifiers
What word is modified by the first adjective in this sentence? Completely brokenhearted by the outcome of the audition, Kermit decided to return to his lily pad on the pond and resume his previous career of catching slow flies.
Kermit
2218. Number Palindromes
The odometer on Bob's Camaro reads 94682. What is the fewest number of miles he must drive before the numbers on his odometer form a palindrome?
67
2219. Rocketry
The time period during which a space vehicle can be launched for a specific mission is a launch ...
window
2220. Borders
Name two of the four U.S. states that have the shortest borders with Canada.
PA, ID, NH, VT
2221. Economic Concepts
What do economists describe as the excess of revenues over costs?
profit
2222. Polygons
What is the term for a ten-sided polygon?
decagon
2223. Spawning
Where do pelagic spawners deposit their eggs and sperm?
open oceans (seas)
2224. Adapting Ideas
Henry Ford's design for his automobile manufacturing plant was influenced by what industry in Chicago that used fixed stations and pulley systems?
meatpacking
2225. Ancient Rulers
From 1122 to 249 B.C., the Chou Dynasty controlled what country?
China
2226. Linear Equations
What is the value of x in this equation?
-5x + 20 = 25
2227. Season Antonyms
What is the opposite of the autumnal equinox?
vernal equinox
2228. Inverse Proportions
Wanda bought 40 new wickets each costing 14 cents each. How many used wickets could she buy for the same total amount at 8 cents each?
70
2229. On Government
Complete this line by William Penn that illustrates antithesis. If men be good, government cannot be ...
bad
2230. Olympic Sports
What Olympic event involves shooting, fencing, swimming, horseback riding, and running?
(modern) pentathlon
2231. Legendary Fruits
What fruit is part of the stories about William Tell, Isaac Newton, and Eve?
apple
2232. Reptilian Literature
Name the python in Kipling's 'The Jungle Book.'
Kaa
2233.
Correct this salutation from a business letter. Dr. Marilynn Frazier, M.D.
eliminate Dr. or M.D.
2234. The Arts
What is the collective name for art forms such as leather painting, embroidery, beading, quilting, weaving, glass blowing, basketry, wood burning, and crocheting?
crafts (handicrafts)
2235. Government Agencies
The FDA is a U.S. federal agency that oversees the safety of cosmetics, foods, medical devices, and drugs, and operates the National Center for Toxicological Research. For what does this abbreviation stand?
Food and Drug Administration
2236. Bilateral Symmetry
In bilaterally symmetrical organisms, body regions can be labeled with respect to their position. What is the name for the front region?
anterior
2237. Mammals
What piglike hoofed mammal inhabits Texas and Arizona?
peccary
2238. Legislation
What is the term for a proposed law?
bill
2239. Objects of Veneration
The Black Stone, believed by many to be a meteorite, is a cornerstone of what structure sacred to Muslims?
Kaaba
2240. Paintings
A painting by what Renaissance genius includes a famous, mysterious smile?
Leonardo da Vinci
2241. Forces
What provides the centripetal forces that keep the planets in their orbits around the Sun and the Moon in its orbit around the Earth?
gravity
2242. Rulers
Rulers with the title of caliph belong to what religion?
Islam
2243. Glass
The index of refraction of a type of glass is 2.5. The speed of light in the glass in meters per second equals 1.2 times 10 to what power?
8th
2244. Pronoun Case
The last pronoun in this line is in what case? We decided to give this our full and undivided attention.
possessive
2245. Stone Age Techniques
Percussion flaking was the first technique used by early man to make tools. What flaking technique was next to be developed?
pressure flaking
2246. Musical Mood Markings
While 'morendo' means dying and 'vivace' means lively, what is the meaning of 'dolce'?
sweetly
2247. Seamounts
The Emperor Seamounts are what kind of mountains?
volcanic
2248. Mideast Geography
What country occupies the southeasternmost part of the Arabian Peninsula?
Oman
2249. Bones
The bones of the shoulder girdle include the scapula and the ...
clavicle (collarbone)
2250. World Leaders
This 1991 passage is about whom? The accomplished master of the delicate balancing act is making his biggest play yet for Western aid to help bail out his embattled perestroika.
Mikhail Gorbachev
2251. Roosevelt's Programs
In the first few months of his term, Franklin Roosevelt introduced the New Deal, a package of economic and social legislation designed to end what?
the (Great) Depression
2252. Civil War Legislation
The Confiscation Act of 1862 declared free the slaves of persons aiding and supporting the insurrection. What document signed later in 1862 after the Battle of Antietam had an even broader purpose?
Emancipation Proclamation
2253. Aviation History
Louis XVI and Marie Antoinette were among the astonished spectators who watched the world's first hot-air balloon built by the Montgolfier brothers carry a sheep, rooster, and duck aloft over what city in 1783?
Paris
2254.
Charles Goodyear's method of preparing rubber was named after what Roman god?
Vulcan
2255. Poisons
What is attacked by a hemotoxin?
blood
2256. Historical Epics
The poet, Luiz de Camoes, wrote 'The Lusiads,' a history of the Portuguese people. In this work, he emphasizes what 15th-century explorer who discovered a sea route to India?
Vasco da Gama
2257. Latin
What is Latin for 'father'?
pater
2258. Geologic Geography
During the Paleozoic and Mesozoic eras, what supercontinent existed?
Pangaea
2259. Court
A voluntary acknowledgment in court that certain facts are true is a(n) ...
admission (stipulation)
2260. Polluted Ponds
What scenic lake near Mt. St. Helens was devastated in 1980?
Spirit Lake
2261. Wartime Leaders
What leader of the Spanish Civil War had the support of the nationalists, right-wing political groups, Fascist Italy, and Nazi Germany?
Francisco Franco
2262. Hydrology
As distinct from surface water, what is the term for all subsurface water?
groundwater
2263. U
Johnny Appleseed was an eccentric who wandered around the Ohio River area in the early 1800s. What was his actual name?
John Chapman
2264. Parks
A national park in what state was named after the settler, Ebenezer Bryce?
Utah
2265. Cycles
Evaporation, condensation, transport, precipitation, groundwater, transpiration, and runoff are all aspects of what ongoing cycle?
hydrologic cycle (water cycle)
2266. Persians
The Persian emperor Darius II greatly expanding the empire and gave himself the title, Shahanshah, which means 'king of ...'
kings
2267. So Long Silent Films
Name the first successful feature-length sound movie.
The Jazz Singer
2268. Dam Disasters
A failed opening in a dam or dike is called a ...
breach
2269. Wheels
A bike wheel 28 inches in diameter covers how many feet in 6 complete turns?
44
2270. Cellular Activity
Protein synthesis and most other cell functions occur outside the nucleus of the cell in the cytoplasm. The information encoded within the DNA molecule must be carried outside the nucleus. Name the molecule that is the carrier of DNA's messages.
mRNA (messenger RNA)
2271. Biblical Blunders
What name should have been used below? David fought with the Finkelsteins, a people who lived during biblical times, and killed Goliath.
Philistines
2272. Pronouns
In what case is the pronoun, I?
nominative
2273. Distillation
What resource is commonly separated into many substances through fractional distillation?
oil (petroleum, crude oil)
2274. Fungi
The three categories of fungi that begin with 'm' are mildews, molds, and what else?
mushrooms
2275. A Norse of Course
Around the year 1000, Leif Ericson sailed west to a rocky coast he named Helluland or Slabland, and then south to a forested region he called Markland or Woodland, and then further south to an area where grapes grew in abundance that he called ...
Vinland or Wineland
2276. Physiology
What prefix is added to words such as 'flexion' or 'extension' that indicates movement beyond the normal position?
hyper
2277. Captives
What three letters designate a soldier, sailor, airman, or marine who is captured and imprisoned during an armed conflict?
POW
2278. Scientific Instruments
This 1994 quote describes what refurbished scientific instrument? Its eyesight is so sharp, that if it were sitting in Washington, it could spot a firefly in Tokyo.
Hubble Space Telescope
2279. Neologisms
What word resulted from blending 'rumpus' and 'ruction'?
ruckus
2280. Force
Tension and shearing are two of the three kinds of forces applied to solids. Name the third involving forces on a body from opposite sides.
compression
2281. Tense
What tense is used below? By quitting time this afternoon, we will have been removing peas from their pods for fifteen straight hours.
future perfect
2282. Respiratory Anatomy
Name the two main airways into your lungs.
bronchi
2283. Colonial Cities
In 1630, John Winthrop and members of the Massachusetts Bay Company established 'a city on a hill.' Name that city.
Boston
2284. Animals
It is an aquatic fur-bearer with webbed feet closely related to the marten. It inhabits lakes and streams, feeding on fish. Name this mammal with a flattened tail that burrows in the banks of streams.
otter
2285. Namesakes Down Under
An enormous shallow salt lake and major peninsula in Australia are named after the British explorer, John Edward ...
Eyre
2286. Military Academies
In what state does a midshipman attend the U.S. Naval Academy?
Maryland
2287. Biogeography
What continent is home to anteaters, sloths, and capybaras?
South America
2288. Horticulture
Plants developed to have considerably shorter than normal growth for the species are called ...
dwarfs
2289. Mixtures
When material is added to a gas or liquid, the material added is the solute and the substance it is added to is the sxe
solvent
2290. Saggy Balloons
Every balloon eventually deflates because the air inside gradually seeps out through the rubber through what process?
diffusion
2291. Trilogies
What country is the setting for the trilogy by Reginald Ottley that includes these titles? Boy Alone The Roan Colt Rain Comes to Yamboorah
Australia
2292. Admissions of Guilt
An admission to a crime by a suspect even though the suspect had absolutely no part in the crime is called a false ...
confession
2293. Magnetite
Given that magnetite has a specific gravity of 5.2, what is the mass of a sample of magnetite 1 cm by 2 cm by 10 cm?
104 grams
2294. Nicknames
What tree is part of Andrew Jackson's nickname?
hickory
2295. Photography
What adjective describes photographs taken from airplanes?
aerial
2296. Thermodynamics
According to the second law of thermodynamics, what will not pass spontaneously from a cold body to a hotter one?
heat
2297. Plate Tectonics
The name of which major plate begins with 'E'?
Eurasian
2298. The Mideast
Who led the fundamentalist Islamic movement that deposed the shah of Iran in 1979?
Ayatollah Khomeini
2299. Scenic Valleys
What Oregon valley extends from Eugene in the south to Portland in the north?
Willamette Valley
2300. Body Defenses
What term means having sufficient biological defenses to avoid specific kinds of diseases?
immunity
2301. River Topography
Successive floods over many years may deposit sediment in long strips along both banks of a river, sometimes several feet above the valley floor. Such river banks are called natural what?
levees
2302. Rock Markings
Ripple marks are typically found in what type of sedimentary rock?
sandstone
2303. Butterflies
What butterfly annually migrates more than 2500 miles between southern Mexico and central California?
monarch butterfly
2304. Longitude
The 20 degrees west meridian and what east meridian divide the Earth into the Eastern and Western Hemispheres?
160 degrees
2305. Botanical Shapes
What is the general shape of ovoid leaves and berries?
egg-shaped (oval)
2306. Mountain Namesakes
A famous mountain peak in Colorado was named in honor of what explorer?
Zebulon Pike
2307. Composer Anagrams
'Gnawer' is an anagram for what composer known for his operas based on Germanic legends?
Wagner
2308. Big Projects
With what U.S. federal agency were these associated? Atlas, Delta, Redstone, Saturn, Thor, Titan
NASA
2309. Fiction
Who says this in 'The Red-Headed League'? Upon first meeting with Mr. Jabez Wilson, I noticed beyond the obvious facts that he has at some time done manual labor, that he is a Freemason, that he takes snuff, that he has been in China, and that he has done a considerable amount of writing lately. I could deduce nothing else.
Sherlock Holmes
2310. Wartime Weapons
During the Civil War, cannons and mortars comprised the ...
artillery
2311. Chile
When the Spanish first arrived in Chile, its northern part was part of what empire?
Inca
2312. Properties of Matter
What property of matter is the sharply defined, reproducible temperature at which a pure solid substance changes into a liquid?
melting point
2313.
There are 840 Nirvana Night School students. The ratio of those taking pig Latin to those not taking pig Latin is 4 to 3. How many pig Latin students are there?
480
2314. Boxing
For what does the abbreviation 'K.O.' stand in boxing?
knockout
2315. Aircraft
What lighter-than-air craft carried out bombing raids on England in World War I?
zeppelins
2316. Anthropology
What variant of the species Homo sapiens lived throughout Europe between 100,000 and 40,000 years ago?
Neanderthal man
2317. Soviet Government
These men were all members of what left-wing majority group in the early history of the Soviet Union? Grigory Zinoviev, Nikolai Bukharin, Leon Trotsky, Vladimir Lenin, Josef Stalin
Bolshevik
2318. Land Acquisitions
What was the easternmost state partially formed by land acquired through the Gadsden Purchase?
New Mexico
2319. Outlets
Most outlets have three holes. The round hole on the bottom of each is for what?
the ground
2320. The Middle Ages
Arrangements of heraldic emblems on the shields of medieval knights are called coats of ...
arms
2321. Angles
Two complementary angles are in the ratio of 1 to 5. What are the measures of the angles?
15, 75 degrees
2322. Couplets
Complete this couplet by Dorothy Parker. Men seldom make passes At girls who wear ...
glasses
2323. Heads of State
What title was used through 1979 for the hereditary monarch of Iran?
shah
2324. Phrases
What is the last object of a preposition below? It's a good idea to keep on good terms with everybody, but especially with your wife, your banker, your stomach, and your conscience.
conscience
2325. The Continental Congress
What ordinal number corresponds with the Continental Congress which drew up the Articles of Confederation?
second
2326. Body Systems
Which two body systems begin with 'e'?
endocrine, excretory
2327. Oscillation
What is the period of oscillation for someone on a pogo stick that strikes the ground every 1.5 seconds?
1.5 seconds
2328. Numbers
What number of two digits is twice the product of its digits multiplied together?
36
2329. Hearings
What 1973 hearings demonstrated the power of the Senate to investigate presidential wrongdoing?
Watergate hearings
2330. Gold
An alloy that contains 58.33% pure gold is how many
karats?
2331. Pain
Ever since a skiing accident 25 years ago, Will has endured chronic pain in his knee. But he experiences what other kind of pain when he whops his thumb with a hammer or when he gets smacked in the back with a racquetball?
acute
2332. Sentence Parts
What is the subject complement in this line? The formerly expansive gardens of the palace were unkempt and looked nearly dead.
dead
2333. Pollution
What atmospheric condition consists of fine particles of dust and smoke in the air that reduce visibility?
haze
2334. Failed Projects
In 1889, after losing some 22,000 men to malaria and yellow fever, what country gave up its eight-year effort to build a canal across the Panamanian isthmus?
France
2335. 4
In the Northern Hemisphere, what season occurs between the summer solstice and the autumnal equinox?
summer
2336. Dutch Colonists
What valley was at the heart of the New Netherland colony?
Hudson Valley
2337. Historical Vocabulary
What is the collective term for the customs, social institutions, arts, and achievements of a nation or people?
culture
2338. 1
Complete this line by Thomas Jefferson on the topic of agriculture. In Europe, the object is to make the most of their land, labor being abundant. Here, it is to make the most of our labor, ...
land being abundant
2339. Liquid Measures
What is the weight in ounces of two pints of water?
32 ounces
2340. Archaeology
Tiahuanaco is a large complex of ceremonial and religious buildings near what lake between Peru and Bolivia?
Titicaca
2341. Solutions
A 60-quart solution consists of hydrochloric acid and water. 40% of the solution is hydrochloric acid. How many quarts of hydrochloric acid are in the solution?
24
2342. Papaya Percentages
Fresh papaya contains 70% water by weight while dry papaya is 10% water by weight. How many kilograms of dry papaya can be obtained from 20 kilograms of fresh papaya?
6.66 (or 6 2/3)
2343.
What part of the soil was stripped away in the southern Great Plains during the 1930s, creating the Dust Bowl?
topsoil (A horizon)
2344. Change Agents
Name the two chief agents of metamorphism.
pressure, heat
2345. Nationalities
What is the nationality of the scientist who discovered the circulation of blood?
English
2346. Space Weaving
The name of an American spacecraft shares what name with the instrument with which a weaver passes the thread?
shuttle
2347. Propaganda
What propaganda technique is used when photos of a national candidate show him having a burger at a fast food chain, playing basketball with locals on a schoolyard court, and chatting with laborers at an auto plant?
plain folks
2348. Seaside Cities
What body of water is directly north of Algiers?
Mediterranean Sea
2349. Ancient Roman Moolah
The inscription 'SC' appeared on coins issued during the Roman Republic which stood for 'Senatus consulto,' meaning 'by command of the' what?
Senate
2350. Power to the People
A ballot initiative is usually initiated through what process requiring a large number of signatures?
petition
2351. Boating Vectors
A jet boat in still water can speed along at 40 miles per hour. But while going upstream in a river flowing at 6 miles per hour, what is the boat's equivalent land velocity?
34 mph
2352. Universal Syllogisms
What is the conclusion to this syllogism? All X are Y. No Z is Y. Therefore ...
no Z is X
2353. Queens
Notable queens of what mythical nation of warriors include Penthesilea and her sister, Hippolyta?
Amazons
2354. Triangles
One leg of a right triangle is 6 yards. Its hypotenuse is 10 yards. What is the length of the other leg?
8 yards
2355. Glacial Deposition
What is the two-word name for a residual formation at the furthest point of a glacier's advance?
terminal moraine
2356. Disunification
In 1991, fifteen republics that were formerly part of what nation became independent nations?
Soviet Union
2357. Optics
You are looking at a paintbrush through the side of a clear glass filled with water. What phenomenon explains why the paintbrush seems to bend and become larger where it enters the water?
refraction
2358. Injuries
What kind of traumatic injury is indicated when an x-ray reveals one of the bones in a finger misaligned with other finger bones?
dislocation
2359. Verbs
What are the principal parts of the verb 'go'?
go, went, gone
2360. Explorers
What was the nationality of these explorers? Bartolomeu Dias Prince Henry the Navigator Vasco da Gama Ferdinand Magellan
Portuguese
2361. Contractors
These are viewed as what kind of contractors from the point of view of the U.S. government? Lockheed Aircraft Corp. Rockwell International Corp. Grumman Corp. General Electric Co. Litton Industries
defense contractors
2362. Ocean Currents
Name the only great ocean current along the eastern shore of the United States.
Gulf Stream
2363. Assistance Programs
An establishment which offers meals to the needy for free or at very low cost is known as what kind of kitchen?
soup kitchen
2364. The Great Seal
On the Great Seal of the United States, we find a group of arrows used as a symbol for war. What symbol on that emblem stands for peace?
olive branch
2365. Dikes
Dikes along rivers are called ...
levees
2366. Rulers
What country was ruled by the Tudors from 1485 to 1603?
England
2367. Vertebrate Zoology
What kind of creatures may have up to 400 vertebrae?
snakes
2368. The Old West
What name reminiscent of a loud sound applied to Old West mining towns that grew up almost overnight?
boom towns
2369. World History
In 1910, an English expedition led by Robert Scott embarked from New Zealand on their ill-fated attempt to reach ...
the South Pole
2370. Election Locations
Name the small, enclosed location in a polling station where voters cast their secret ballots.
voting booth
2371. Ecological Relationships
Any organism that feeds upon those below it in a food chain is a...
consumer
2372. Tall Tales
What animal in the tales about Pecos Bill is the same species as Walter Farley's Man O' War and Mary O'Hara's Flicka?
Widowmaker
2373. U
Samuel Robinson lost all his slaves when the Emancipation Proclamation was issued. The U.S. denied him reimbursement for his loss under the terms of what amendment ratified in 1868?
14th
2374. Radio
Two kinds of equipment are needed for radio communication including a receiver and what else?
transmitter
2375. Life
What filamentous prokaryotic life form may be single-cellular or multi-cellular, and spherical, rod-shaped, or spiral-shaped?
bacteria
2376. Magnetism
The flipping of the Earth's magnetic field is called a magnetic ...
reversal
2377. Radical Equations
What is x in this equation? the square root of x equals 5
25
2378. Encephalitis
Equine encephalitis is a mosquito-borne type of viral encephalitis originally isolated as an encephalitis that affects what mammals?
horses
2379. Commanders
Who commanded Operation Overlord?
Dwight Eisenhower
2380. Space Exploration
Mars, Venus, Jupiter, and the Moon were the first four celestial bodies touched by a spacecraft. In 2001, what object became the fifth?
Eros
2381. Energy
All matter at temperatures above absolute zero emits electromagnetic energy. The continuous emission of energy is called ...
radiation
2382. Devices in Physical Science
Name the common device consisting of voltaic cells combined in series.
battery
2383. Money Slang
A C-note is slang for what denomination of U.S. currency?
$100
2384. First Aid Chemistry
What chemical compound used in many cleaning fluids is also a principal ingredient in smelling salts?
ammonia
2385. Mysterious Deaths
A body is discovered in a wooded area. The coroner will request that what kind of exam be performed to determine the cause of death?
autopsy (post mortem exam, necropsy)
2386. Inventions
The introduction of the horseshoe and the horse collar permitted the substitution of the horse, with its greater speed and endurance, for what slower animal previously used to draw plows?
Ox
2387. Agriculture
In the 1920s, two-thirds of the commercial fertilizer sold in the U.S. went to Southern farmers who used it to shorten the maturity time for cotton and thereby short-circuit the biological time table of what small, long-snouted beetle?
boll weevil
2388. 1
Clotho was one of the three Fates. She was responsible for spinning what thread?
thread of life
2389. Space Projects
In 2005, NASA directed a spacecraft to plunge into a comet in an effort to see a piece of the solar system that has not changed in four billion years. The probe's name was Deep ...
Impact
2390. Homeric Literature
In the 'Odyssey,' identify the bird-women whose beautiful voices lure sailors to their doom on rocky shores.
Sirens
2391. Clouds
What prefix is used in the names for high clouds?
cirro-
2392. Writing
An author's characteristic way of using words is called her: sss
style
2393. Radioactive Decay
Every 5570 years, half of what isotope decays into nitrogen-14?
carbon-14
2394. Prefixes
What prefix meaning 'beyond' or 'extremely' can be added to words such as sonic, sensitive, violet, and pure?
ultra-
2395. References
In what kind of reference book would this be found? PUNISH - visit, afflict, hurt, persecute, victimize, avenge, take disciplinary action, give one a lesson, chasten, chastise, reprove, throw the book at
thesaurus
2396. Roman Mythology
The most disastrous eruption of Mt. Vesuvius occurred on August 24, 79 A.D., just one day after Vulcanalia, the festival of the Roman god of what?
fire (metalworking)
2397. Earth's Spheres
Which sphere of our planet is divided into plates?
lithosphere
2398. Novels
DuBose Heyward published a novel later made into an opera by George Gershwin. It concerns life in a black tenement section of the Charleston waterfront, Catfish Row. Name the opera.
Porgy and Bess
2399. Scientific Apparatus
Fran just bought some transducers for converting electrical signals into acoustic signals? What did she buy?
speakers (loudspeakers, headphones)
2400. Proverbs
This is a restatement of what proverb? Nonpresence causes an organ composed of cardiac tissue to become increasingly affectionate.
Absence makes the heart grow fonder.
2401. Clouds
What kind of cloud poking out beneath a cumulonimbus clouds becomes a tornado when it touches the ground?
funnel cloud
2402. Legal Malapropisms
What phrase did the accused mean in this line? Will there be any hope of a flea bargain of the criminal charges against me?
plea bargain
2403. Ancient Time Periods
Eight Olympiads encompass how many years?
32
2404. Early America
In the late 18th century, the Northwest Territory was generally north of what major American river?
Ohio River
2405. Primitive Weaponry
The bow and arrow replaced what other weapon described as a special stick used to throw a spear?
atlatl
2406. Fictional Locales
Because he is unstuck in time, Billy Pilgrim is forever flipping in and out of different periods of his life, from his youth as a German POW, to his present dull, lifeless marriage, to his future as a pampered prisoner on what planet?
Tralfamador
2407. Heartburn
What kind of ringlike muscle between the esophagus and stomach remains closed except when swallowing, thus keeping stomach acids from backflowing into the esophagus?
sphincter
2408. Explorers
In his second expedition to the Antarctic in the 1930s, who discovered and named the Edsel Ford Mountains?
Richard Byrd
2409. Astronomy
The Horsehead and the Crab are what kind of heavenly objects?
nebulae
2410. Parodies
What British poet would have written 'The Purple Cow' poem in this way? Hail to thee, blithe spirit! Cow thou never wert' But in life to cheer it Playest thy full part In purple lines of unpremeditated art.
Percy Bysshe Shelley
2411. Natural Times
'Diurnal' indicates a period of how many hours?
24
2412. Light
Light travels in waves of various lengths. The shorter the wavelength, the greater is what power of a microscope?
resolving power
2413. The Colonial Period
What was made by coopers in the New World colonies?
barrels
2414. Weapons
What was Germany's most effective weapon in the Battle of the Atlantic?
U-boats (submarines, torpedoes)
2415. Sayings
What word that is also found in one of Theodore Roosevelt's most famous statements about his foreign policy is missing in this adage? Unfortunately, the right words are more readily listened to if you also have a sharp ...
stick
2416. River Junctions
What state is just east of the confluence of the Mississippi and Arkansas Rivers?
Mississippi
2417. Motion
What is the meaning of 'mv' in this equation? momentum equals mv
mass times velocity
2418. Africa
Name the enormous lake which forms much of the southern border of Uganda.
Lake Victoria
2419. Paintings
These were creations of what Spanish painter born in Crete? View of Toledo Laocoon
El Greco
2420. A Climatic Conglomeration
In what state are there nearly 150 climate zones ranging from rain forest to desert to snowy peaks?
Hawaii
2421. Fictional Characters
What character spoke this line in a short story? Hunting? Good heavens, General Zaroff, what you speak of is murder!
Rainsford
2422. Force
A covered wagon is pulled by two horses, one with a force of 220 pounds due west, the other with a force of 350 pounds due west. What is the total force on the wagon?
570 pounds west
2423. African History
In 1960, the government of what country expanded its apartheid policy by making black political parties illegal?
South Africa
2424. Ballets
Peter Tchaikovsky wrote the music for what ballet that tells of a beautiful princess and her first moments with Prince Charming?
Sleeping Beauty
2425. War Songs
These songs all relate to what conflict? The Ballad of Ira Hayes Blitzkrieg Bop Nagasaki Nightmare Enola Gay
World War II
2426. Political Philosophy
Jeremy Bentham said the foundation of morals and legislation is the greatest happiness of the greatest what?
number
2427. Inventors
Who was the inventor of the first perpetual motion machine?
nobody (can't be done)
2428. Factoring
Completely factor p squared - 3p - 4.
(p+1)(p-4)
2429. Rousseau
In relation to Rousseau's writings, an uncultivated person who is actually more worthy and sensible than conventionally 'civilized' people is called a noble ...
savage
2430. Feuding Families
In what state did the Hatfields and McCoys live and die?
Kentucky
2431. Grammatical Mood
What mood is in these quotes by Albert Einstein? -If I had my life to live over again, I'd be a plumber. -If only I had known, I should have become a watchmaker.
subjunctive
2432. Angiosperms
Name the structure in angiosperms that bears the organs for sexual reproduction.
flower
2433. Oceanography
The point marking the outer edge of a continental shelf and the beginning of the continental slope is called the shelf ...
break
2434. Hymns
These are what type of hymn? Glory to God (Gloria Patri) Glory Be (Gloria in excelsis) Holy, Holy, Holy (Sanctus)
doxologies
2435. Bait
What is the name for chunks of fish bait thrown into the water to draw fish?
chum
2436. Dependent Clauses
The dependent clause in this sentence functions as what part of speech? My sister, who put herself through college, finally decided on a career in the Coast Guard.
adjective
2437. Scherzos
Name the scherzo composed by Paul Dukas in which a magician can transform a broom into an automaton capable of performing menial tasks.
Sorcerer's Apprentice
2438. Insects
What is the term for male bees that lack stingers and have the sole purpose of mating with queen bees?
drones
2439. Numbers
The largest composite number less than 37 is ..
36
2440. Informing the Congress
Who once uttered these words to Congress? Therefore, as President of the United States of America, I do hereby proclaim to all whom it may concern that a state of war exists between the United States and the Imperial German government.
Woodrow Wilson
2441. Pollution
Sulfur dioxide gas reacts chemically with sunlight, oxygen, dust particles, and water to form volcanic smog known as ...
vog
2442. Alliances
In the acronym, NATO, for what does the letter N stand?
North
2443. Science Fiction
This is from what story by H.G. Wells? Those who have never seen a living Martian can scarcely imagine the strange horror of its appearance. The peculiar V-shaped mouth with its pointed upper lip, the absence of brow ridges, the absence of a chin beneath the wedgelike lower lip, the Gorgon groups of tentacles were vital, intense, and monstrous.
War of the Worlds
2444. Expressions
What cliche meaning to change one's opinion comes from the American military command to turn 180 degrees while marching?
do an about face
2445. Clauses
What is the function of the noun clause in this sentence? That a survivor of the Holocaust would be my own next-door neighbor had never even occurred to me.
subject
2446. Impeachments
Who presides over the Senate trials if the president is impeached?
chief justice
2447. Shock
Shock causes less oxygen to be delivered to tissues. Because of this oxygen deficit, what type of acid accumulates in the tissues?
lactic acid
2448. Energy
While potential energy is due to position, kinetic energy is due to ...
motion
2449. Turncoats
What American military leader betrayed the United States, was commissioned as a brigadier general in the British army, and led two expeditions against Richmond, Virginia and New London, Connecticut?
Benedict Arnold
2450. Paintings
These are titles for what kind of paintings? Chrysanthemums Branch of White Peonies and Pruning Shears Grapes, Peaches and Almonds Pitcher and Fruit
still life
2451. Whaling
The discovery of what in Pennsylvania in 1859 largely led to the demise of the primary business of Nantucket, Bedford, and Provincetown, Massachusetts?
oil (petroleum)
2452. Painters
What artist painted several portraits of himself with a bandage covering his ear?
Vincent van Gogh
2453. Water
Connate groundwater is trapped in sedimentary deposits at the time of their formation. Meteoric groundwater is derived from ...
precipitation (rain, snow)
2454. Aviation Milestones
What is the term for the first flight that an aspiring pilot takes in which there is no instructor in the plane?
solo (first solo flight)
2455. Volcanoes
Dramatic volcanic eruptions which throw debris high into the air are explosive. Relatively quiet volcanic eruptions which emit basaltic lava moving at just a few miles per hour are described as being ...
effusive
2456. Musical Instruments
What kind of drum figures prominently in 'Sunrise,' the initial fanfare in 'Also Sprach Zarathustra' by Richard Strauss?
kettle drum
2457. Scientific Processes
What process is used by the dairy industry to reduce butterfat to tiny particles that are evenly distributed throughout the product?
homogenization (emulsification)
2458. Naval Vessels
Name the fast, maneuverable warships used during World War II to escort fleets and convoys.
destroyers
2459. Text Art
Academic texts usually include drawings, photographs, and images that provide examples or help clarify material being covered. What are these embedded visual supplements called?
illustrations
2460.
This is about what facility? This Paris arms depot and prison was attacked in the search for arms on July 14, 1789, and the prisoners inside were freed.
Bastille
2461. Matter
What is occupied by matter?
space
2462. Weaponry History
Prior to the invention of the percussion cap, what firing mechanism was used on most pistols and rifles in the 17th and 18th centuries?
flintlock
2463. Violations
Bigamists violate what kind of contracts?
marriage contracts
2464. Plays
In what Shakespearean play do the Weird Sisters play an important part?
Macbeth
2465. Badlands
A famous area of badlands in northern Arizona characterized by picturesque layers of eroded yellow and red rock is known as what desert?
Painted Desert
2466. Protists
Protists belong to what biological kingdom?
Protista
2467. Body Defenses
What is promoted by the tiny bodies in blood plasma called platelets?
blood clotting
2468. Explorers
In 1542, who became the first European to set foot on California's Santa Catalina Island?
Juan Cabrillo
2469. Terrorism
In 2005, Spanish police arrested sixteen suspected Islamic extremists, eleven of which were alleged to be connected to the 2004 train bombings in what city?
Madrid
2470. Composite Organisms
Although there are numerous variations, what mutualistic life form most often consists of ascomycete fungus and a green algae?
lichen
2471. Body Parts
Without what thin cartilaginous structure at the base of your tongue, you would choke every time you ate something?
epiglottis
2472. River Mouths
The James, and Rappahannock Rivers flow into what bay?
Chesapeake Bay
2473. Presidential Despair
What president wrote this about a meeting he had with his sister? She came down to our place after I was defeated. I told her that my political life was over and I was doomed to be just growing peanuts for the rest of my existence.
Jimmy Carter
2474. Musicals
What line completes this stanza from a song in 'A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum'? Something familiar, Something peculiar, Something for everyone ...
A comedy tonight!
2475. Botany
What happens to the flowers of diurnal plants during daylight?
They open.
2476. Pronouns
Classify the last pronoun used in this quote by H.L. Mencken. Conscience is the inner voice which warns us that someone may be looking.
indefinite
2477. Groundwater
Groundwater moves downward through permeable rock until it reaches an impermeable rock layer. Above the impermeable rock, all openings are filled with water to form a zone of ...
saturation
2478. Sentences
What is the simple predicate in this sentence? The primitive people in the island village affected by the radiation were listening to a report by the federal investigators.
were listening
2479. Oceans
What two oceans touch the East Indies?
Pacific, Indian
2480. Conflicts
This is about a conflict on what peninsula? Officially there was no war there. It was only a United Nations police action.
Korean Peninsula
2481. Genetics
Gregor Mendel crossed garden peas purebred for red flower color with plants purebred for white flower color. The offspring in the first generation all had red flowers. From this, he concluded that the gene for red color is ...
dominant
2482. Pirates
Before turning to privateering and piracy, Captain Kidd had been an affluent shipowner in what U.S. city?
New York
2483. Victories
The first major victory for the Americans in the Revolutionary War occurred when troops under Horatio Gates and Benedict Arnold inflicted some 600 casualties at what battle fought in eastern New York?
Battle of Saratoga
2484. Navigation
Name the instrument that can be used to figure out a ship's position by measuring the angle between a star or the Sun and the horizon.
sextant
2485. Continents
What is the smallest continent that developed from the northern part of the supercontinent, Pangaea?
Europe
2486. Rocky Elements
Olivine, augite, and hypersthene are mafic rocks, which means they include significant amounts of magnesium and what other metallic element?
iron
2487. Forts
From the wreckage of the Santa Maria, Christopher Columbus built a fort on what island?
Hispaniola
2488. Gothic Romances
In 'The Fall of the House of Usher,' what is the relationship between Madeline and Roderick?
brother and sister (or twins)
2489. Scientific Vocabulary
An object pushed or thrown forward in the air by a sudden, great force, such that the object continues in motion when the force no longer acts is called a...
projectile
2490. Seasonal Songs
Name any of the three most enduring, seasonal songs composed by Irving Berlin.
White Christmas, Easter Parade, Happy Holiday
2491. Malls
In Washington, D.C., the National Mall extends from the Capitol Building to what river?
Potomac
2492. Border Controversies
A longstanding dispute about the border between Pennsylvania and Maryland was settled in 1767 by the work of what two surveyors?
Mason, Dixon
2493. Sculptures
What work of art is Rodin's sculpture of a pensive person?
The Thinker
2494. Poetry
What are the first five words in an 1822 poem by Clement Moore with the title, 'An Account of a Visit from St. Nicholas'?
‘Twas the night before Christmas ...
2495. Square Root
What is the square root of 256?
16
2496. Psychotherapy
What kind of therapy is a psychologist using when she tells these things to her patient? You feel drowsy. Your eyelids are heavy. You are sinking deeper and deeper into your chair. You are falling asleep. You are deep asleep.
hypnotism
2497. Prefixes
The prefix 'hemi' means what?
half
2498. Securities
All investments sold to the public raising more than one-half million dollars must be registered with what federal agency?
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)
2499. American Poetry
What nostalgic poem by John Greenleaf Whittier recounts the adventures of rural boyhood?
The Barefoot Boy
2500. Historic Routes
What early road in California linked twenty-one missions and four presidios from San Diego to Sonoma?
El Camino Real (The King's Highway)
2501. Mountain Ranges
Mt. McKinley is the highest peak of what major mountain range?
Rocky Mountains
2502. History of Science
Around 600 B.C., an ancient Greek, Thales of Miletus, rubbed amber and silk together to produce what kind of electricity?
static
2503. 1
Who, according to Ralph Waldo Emerson, should you trust?
thyself (yourself)
2504. Chemistry
What element is the backbone of organic molecules?
carbon
2505. Insects
Name the three main body parts of insects.
head, thorax, abdomen
2506. Cardinals
What 17th-century cardinal, a great diplomat unsurpassed in the art of intrigue, did all he could to strengthen the authority of the French monarchy?
Cardinal Richelieu
2507. 2
Spell the missing homophone in this analogy. While someone who is well known and highly regarded is eminent, an event that is about to take place is ...
imminent
2508. Musical Inventions
In 1711, the British musician John Shore invented what acoustic device with the shape of a two-pronged fork that resonates at a constant, specific pitch?
tuning fork
2509. Trails
Through what two states would you pass if you hiked the entire Tahoe Rim Trail?
California, Nevada
2510. 19th-Century Lawyers
Georges Picquart was himself imprisoned because of his ardent defense of what French army officer unjustly convicted of treason in 1894?
Alfred Dreyfus
2511. Forces
When swimming, water pushes harder on your lower surface than your upper surface because there is more pressure on your lower surface. The difference between the force pushing down and the force pushing up is called what?
buoyancy (buoyant force)
2512. Angstroms
An angstom equals one meter times 10 to what power?
-10th
2513. Elements
On an alphabetical listing of the elements, what is the first one to have a chemical symbol consisting of just one letter?
boron
2514.
The hobbit Bilbo Baggins lives at Bag End in what community?
Hobbiton
2515. Ocean Currents
Deep ocean currents are driven by two gradients including temperature and what else?
density
2516. Economics
Strongly identified with capitalism, what economic doctrine is based on the action of private individuals and companies operating in the marketplace without government control?
free (private) enterprise
2517. Expressions
What expression relating to a battle of stags or bulls means to engage in a fight or clash?
lock horns with
2518. National Parks
What national park is named after its fossils?
Dinosaur National Park
2519. Plant Life
This is about what type of plant of the Arizona-Sonoran desert? These giants which reach a 50-foot height may contain more than 10 tons of water.
saguaro cactus
2520.
What is the most important agricultural crop of Taiwan?
rice
2521. Optics
In optics, what term refers to any transparent body having bases of the same size and shape and sides which are parallelograms?
prism
2522. Political 'isms'
What 'ism' indicates political views far to the left or very far to the right?
extremism
2523. Institutions
The Brookings Institution in Washington D.C. is what kind of tank?
think tank
2524.
What gas is formed in ocean water through the metabolic processes of fish?
carbon dioxide
2525. Great Lakes
The flow of water from Lake Erie to Lake Ontario is interrupted by what major waterfalls?
Niagara Falls
2526. Liquids
What process involves the volatilization of a liquid and the subsequent condensation of the vapor?
distillation
2527. Colonial History
What American colony was established largely as a military buffer between South Carolina and the Spanish settlements in Florida?
Georgia
2528. Word Categories
What is the collective name for these apparently meaningless words that make a pause or hesitation in speech? um, like, totally, ah, really, whatever, right
fillers
2529. Metaphoric Adjectives
The lines in a worried forehead resemble the grooves in the earth made by a farmer's plow. What adjective describes such a brow?
furrowed
2530. Inventions
Not long after its invention, what code became the primary language of telegraphy throughout the world?
Morse code
2531. Colonial Period
What day is referred to below? In 1621, Governor Bradford sent out hunters 'that we might after a more special manner rejoice together after we had gathered the fruit of our labors.'
Thanksgiving
2532. Implied Rights
Many argue that the pervasive surveillance of an entire population or any substantial portion of that population is a violation of what right that is not explicitly specified in the U.S. Constitution?
tight to privacy
2533. Phrases
What is the adjective phrase in this example? The players with the least natural ability are on our team.
with the least natural ability
2534. Homonyms
What word that as a verb means to make a deep resonant sound is used as an adjective to indicate a town undergoing rapid economic and population growth?
boom
2535. Roles
Which of Shakespeare's characters has the greatest number of speaking lines?
Hamlet
2536. The Inquisition
In 1483, what Spanish king and queen authorized Tomas de Torquemada to take command of the Inquisition in all Spanish possessions?
Ferdinand and Isabella
2537. Crime Rhyme
What crime that rhymes with 'shaft' means extortion by public officials?
graft
2538. Constellations
It can be found by extending a line beginning with the pointer stars of the Big Dipper through the North Star. It is twice as far from the North Star as the Big Dipper. Name this constellation between Andromeda and Aquarius.
Pegasus
2539. Signatories
These are among the names of the 41 men who signed what document? William Mullins, John Tilley, John Alden, Moses Fletcher, William Bradford
Mayflower Compact
2540. Greek Letters
Name the sixteenth letter of the Greek alphabet that also stands for a transcendental number.
pi
2541. Magnetism
The area in which the effect of a magnet can be detected is called its magnetic what?
field
2542. Complementary Angles
One of a pair of complementary angles is 46 degrees. How many degrees are in the other?
44 degrees
2543. Jeffersonian Astronomy
What are the 'stones' Thomas Jefferson is talking about in this excerpt? I would more easily believe that a Yankee professor would lie than that stones would fall from heaven.
meteorites (meteors)
2544. Fuels
What gas synfuel was distributed by utilities until it was replaced by lower-priced natural gas?
coal gas
2545. Poetry
This is from what poem by Samuel Coleridge? Where Alph, the sacred river, ran Through caverns measureless to man Down to a sunless sea.
Kubla Khan
2546. Valuable Metals
Pure silver may be found associated with pure gold in the form of what alloy?
electrum
2547. Biology
What is the next subdivision below family in biological classification?
genus
2548. Recordings
In the music industry, for what did the abbreviation LP stand?
long-playing
2549. Arctic Areas
Name the westernmost country on the European mainland through which the Arctic Circle runs.
Norway
2550. Artistic Adaptations
The libretto of an opera by Gioacchino Rossini was adapted from a Friedrich Schiller play about what Swiss national hero?
William Tell
2551. Currents
The Gulf Stream is a warm ocean current off the eastern coast of what continent?
North America
2552. International Borders
Which Canadian province borders Vermont?
Quebec
2553. Art Forms
What art form hung on walls is created on high-warp or low-warp looms?
tapestries
2554. Etymology
What kind of paper was named after the capital of the Philippines?
manila
2555. Poems in Novels
This is from what story by C.S. Lewis? Wrong will be right, when Aslan comes in sight, At the sound of his roar, sorrows will be no more, When he bares his teeth, winter meets its death, And when he shakes his mane, we shall have spring again.
The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe
2556. Historical Advice
What word completes this advice by Ralph Waldo Emerson? Hitch your wagon to a ...
star
2557. Biological Sacs
The allantois is a sac functioning to collect metabolic wastes and to participate in gas exchange. The allantois is found in what?
eggs
2558. Weight
A little green man who weighs 4 pounds on the Moon would weigh how much on Earth?
24 pounds
2559. Longitude
You are watching the Sun and at the moment it reaches local apparent noon, you call Greenwich and find the time there to be 5 p.m. What is your longitude?
75 degrees west
2560. Forms of Drama
A serialized melodrama for daytime television is called a ...
soap opera (soap)
2561. Purchasing Problems
Brandon Cattell spent $42 for boots. This was $14 less than twice what he spent for a saddle blanket. How much was the saddle blanket?
$28
2562. Ocean Waves
Although they are typically caused by earthquakes, other events like landslides, volcanic eruptions, nuclear explosions, and meteorite impacts can also generate what kind of enormous ocean waves?
tsunamis
2563. Stories
What tale by O. Henry begins with this? It looked like a good thing: but wait till I tell you. We were down South, in Alabama -- Bill Driscoll and myself -- when this kidnapping idea struck us. It was, as Bill expressed, 'during a moment of temporary mental apparition,' but we didn't find that out till later.
The Ransom of Red Chief
2564. South American History
What city that served as the capital of the Spanish empire in the New World until the 19th century remains the capital of Peru?
Lima
2565. Anagrams
The name of what former Mideast leader is hidden in these anagrams? He damns Saudis. Mad as his dunes. A mad sun hissed. His end a sad sum. I smashed Sudan.
Saddam Hussein
2566. Commandments
Pigs establish the Seven Commandments in what story by George Orwell?
Animal Farm
2567. Slavery
Slavery in America began in 1619 when the Dutch brought captured Africans to what first permanent English New World colony?
Jamestown
2568. Mythical Spinners
Clotho was one of the three Fates. She was responsible for spinning the thread of ...
life
2569. Famines
Famine swept Ireland several times in the 19th century when what crop repeatedly failed?
potato
2570. Tides
High tides are at their lowest and low tides are at their highest when the alignment of what three bodies in the solar system is perpendicular?
Earth, Sun, Moon
2571. Laws of the Lands
India has the world's longest constitution, with 448 articles and 94 amendments. In contrast to that, what country has the shortest constitution?
United States
2572. Insolation
Which U.S. state has the lowest level of insolation?
Alaska
2573. Bias
The unequal treatment of individuals on the basis of gender, race, age, religion or disability is called ...
discrimination (prejudice, bigotry, injustice)
2574. Musicals
What musical by Lerner and Loewe written during the 1960s was based on the legends of King Arthur?
Camelot
2575. Astronomy
Reflective, emission, dark, and planetary are the four categories of heavenly diffuse masses of interstellar dust and gas?
nebulas
2576.
He lost an eye in an explosion, took up organic chemistry, and went on to develop the field of spectroscopy. Name this German chemist after whom laboratory burners were named.
Robert Bunsen
2577. Chemical Processes
Making a substance white by destroying its coloring matter is called ...
bleaching
2578. Colonial Cities
In 1630, John Winthrop and members of the Massachusetts Bay Company established 'a city on a hill,' a city known today as ...
Boston
2579. Last Lines
This is the last line of what anachronistic story by Mark Twain? We will leave him this manuscript, and then we will try to leave.
A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court
2580. Physical Science
What is the term for any solid bodies bounded by flat surfaces that are symmetrically arranged?
crystals
2581. Solids
The two categories of solids are amorphous and ...
crystalline
2582. Color
What is the complementary color of green?
red
2583. Military Groups
The First Regiment of U.S. Volunteer Cavalry distinguished itself in the battles of Las Guasimas and San Juan. What was the popular name of this regiment led by Teddy Roosevelt?
Rough Riders
2584. Numbers
Express as an ordinal the number of nights in 'The Arabian Nights' tales.
1001st
2585. Partial People
According to the original U.S. Constitution, what
fraction of a slave did not count as a person?
2586. Statistics
What is the mean score? 92 96 88 84
90
2587. Physical Properties
What adjective describes a solid that can be drawn out to form a thin wire?
ductile
2588. 17th-century Buccaneers
The British buccaneer who terrorized Spanish settlements of the Caribbean between 1655 and 1671 was Henry ...
Morgan
2589. Magellan
What percentage of the ships that started out with Magellan's voyage around the world actually completed the trip?
20%
2590. Brief Marriages
Eva Anna Paula Braun's name when she died in 1945 was Eva Anna Paula ...
Hitler
2591. Monarchs
This passage from an important historical document refers to what king? He has plundered our seas, ravaged our Coasts, burnt our towns, and destroyed the lives of our people.
George Ill
2592. Ancient People
This is about what Mediterranean people? They were merchants, pirates, and the greatest seafarers of the ancient world. They lived along a coastal strip at the eastern end of the Mediterranean which is now part of Syria, Lebanon, and Israel.
Phoenicians
2593. Anatomy
What organs are enclosed in a double membranous envelope, the pleural sac?
lungs
2594. 5
Name the largest watershed of the Pacific Northwest.
Columbia River watershed
2595. Seas
What sea is between the United Kingdom and the European mainland?
North Sea
2596.
Fidel Castro exchanged his 1200 prisoners of war for $52 million in food and medical supplies following what fiasco which lead to worldwide denunciation of the United States?
Bay of Pigs invasion
2597. Epitaph Word Play
What word completes this brief epitaph? ON THE 22ND OF JUNE JONATHAN FIDDLE WENT OUT OF ...
TUNE
2598. 4
In 'Lord of the Flies,' Piggy suffers from what respiratory disease?
asthma
2599. Bowling
Knocking down all the pins with one ball is bowling is called a what?
strike
2600. Acceleration
To the nearest tenth, a body dropped from a height of how many meters will strike the ground in | second?
4.9 meters
2601. Intestinal Puns
The name for what portion of the small intestine sounds like a popular month for weddings?
jejunum
2602. Legendary Old West Guys
The grave of what man killed during a poker game is on Deadwood's Boot Hill next to Calamity Jane's?
Wild Bill Hickok
2603. Radiology
What relatively high-energy photons are involved in most medical radiologic tests?
X-rays
2604. 3
What category used in the classification of organisms consists of several closely related genera?
family
2605. Aviation
An aircraft surface such as a wing or propeller blade that controls lift or propulsion is an ...
airfoil
2606. Fiction
Name the character whose foot is mentioned in the quote below. I was exceedingly surprised with the print of a man's naked foot on the shore.
Friday
2607. Texas History
Sam Houston's capture of what military leader abruptly ended Mexico's effort to subdue Texas?
Santa Anna
2608. Branches of Government
Name the three branches into which the framers of the Constitution divided authority in the U.S.
executive, legislative, judicial
2609.
These were major engagements of what war that lasted from 1337 to 1453? Crecy, Sluys, Agincourt, Calais, Poitiers
Hundred Years' War
2610. Shop Equipment
What device uses energy produced in a coal-burning power plant two hundred miles away to mash atmospheric gases into a small container that then travels by hose to an impact wrench to loosen rusty lug bolts last tightened by a sumo wrestler in 1955?
air compressor
2611. Invasions
In 1066, England was invaded by the army of William, the Duke of ...
Normandy
2612. Flower Tunes
These words from a musical are addressed to what flower? Every morning you greet me, Small and White, Clean and bright You look happy to meet me.
Edelweiss
2613. Computer History
The first high-level computer language was developed by IBM in 1957 and called ...
FORTRAN
2614. Courtroom Procedure
Name the act of calling the court's attention to something that the counsel of one of the parties in a lawsuit considers improper or illegal.
objection
2615. Symbiosis
Ostriches typically hang in the immediate neighborhood of zebras. Ostriches have poor senses of hearing and smell while the zebra's are well developed. But ostriches have well developed vision which zebras don't have. This illustrates what form of symbiosis?
mutualism
2616. United Nations Agreements
According to a U.N. Convention, all states, whether coastal or landlocked, have the rights to navigate, overfly, lay submarine cables, build artificial islands, fish, and conduct research outside national territorial waters. These rights are collectively known as freedom of what?
the seas
2617. Parasitic Plants
Because mistletoe is a parasitic plant, what is the term for any tree upon which it grows?
host
2618.
What work by Thor Heyerdahl is subtitled, 'Across the Pacific by Raft'?
Kon-Tiki
2619. Life
All the external conditions and influences affecting the life and development of an organism make up its what?
environment
2620. Bullion
The largest U.S. Bullion Depository is in what state?
Kentucky
2621. Sentence Grammar
Classify this statement by Jean-Jacques Rousseau in terms of its structure. Censorship may be useful for the preservation of morality, but can never be so for its restoration.
compound sentence
2622. Galaxies
What somewhat uncommon galaxies lack well-defined nuclei and have no definite shape or structure?
irregular galaxies
2623. Tax
What tax is charged on every gallon of fuel purchased for automotive use?
gasoline tax
2624. Sovereigns
What is the female equivalent of an emperor?
empress
2625. Veins
What veins receive the blood from the exterior of the cranium?
jugular
2626. Soil
Which soil horizon consists of incompletely weathered parent material and is transitional between unweathered bedrock below and developing soil above?
C horizon
2627. Mideast Rivers
Which of the two rivers that begin in the hills of Armenia and flow to the Persian Gulf is longer?
Euphrates
2628. Aircraft
These aircraft were all used during what war? Flying Fortress Spitfire Corsair Liberator Mustang
World War II
2629. Biology
What noun describes a mammal with these characteristics? -abnormally pale skin -very light hair -lacking normal eye coloration -lacking normal pigmentation
albino
2630. Shared Melodies
The 'SpongeBob SquarePants' theme song uses a similar melody as that in what old sea chantey?
Blow the Man Down
2631. Lever Problems
A 50-pound weight is on a lever 6 feet from the fulcrum. At what distance from the fulcrum must a 30-pound weight be placed to balance the lever?
10 feet
2632. Fraction Transformation
Change the fraction z/6 to an equivalent fraction by multiplying its terms by a+b.
(az+bz)/(6a+6b)
2633. Mammals
What mammal uses its proboscis for drinking, bathing, and collecting food?
elephant
2634. Motion
What is the name for the resistance an object has to a change in its state of motion?
inertia
2635. Points of View
This line from one of Poe's stories is written from what point of view? Yet, mad am I not --and very surely do I not not dream. But to-morrow I die, and to-day I would unburden my soul. My immediate purpose is to place before the world a series of mere household events.
first person
2636. Palindromes
What is the last word in this palindrome? Poor Dan is ina...
droop
2637. Writing
What word completes this line by Bernard Baruch that illustrates parallel structure? Those who mind don't matter and those who matter don't ...
mind
2638. Tropisms
The growth or movement of a plant in response to water is called ...
hydrotropism
2639. Modifiers
What is dangling in this example? Smashed almost beyond recognition, I saw my bicycle lying on the driveway.
participle (participial phrase)
2640. Allusions
This description of the Battle of Agincourt is an allusion to whose words of the 20th century? Never in the history of English arms were so many slaughtered by so few.
Winston Churchill's
2641. Horse Myths
In Greek legend, the winged horse, Pegasus, sprang from the blood of what slain Gorgon?
Medusa
2642. Rights
The freedom of people to gather together in public is called freedom of ...
assembly
2643. Scientific Jargon
What word that sounds like a pun for two ten-cent coins is used by scientists to describe a model of reality?
paradigm
2644.
When the peak of one wave coincides with the trough of another wave, the waves are out of ...
phase
2645. Naval Officers
What is the highest rank shared by these officers? Frank Fletcher, Don Juan of Austria, Charles Howard, David Farragut, Isoroku Yamamoto, Ray Spruance, Horatio Nelson, William Halsey
admiral
2646. Prisoners
Nelson Mandela spent more than twenty-six years as a political prisoner in what country?
South Africa
2647. Mountains
To the nearest thousand, what is the height in feet of the world's highest peak?
29,000
2648. Refugees
The phrase 'boat people' came into common use in the 1970s with the mass exodus of refugees from what Southeast Asian nation?
Vietnam (South Vietnam)
2649.
What is the first volume in the Dragonriders of Pern series?
Dragonfight
2650. Islands
Martha's Vineyard and Nantucket are islands just south of what cape?
Cape Cod
2651. U
The range of the Appalachians along the Tennessee-North Carolina border are called the Great what?
Smokies (Smoky Mountains)
2652.
What is the name for the scientific study of insects?
entomology
2653. Homophones
Spell the term for an irregular military force or paramilitary unit that is a homophone for the largest anthropoid ape.
guerrilla
2654. Birthdays
In July of 2013, what birthday of the U.S. was celebrated?
237
2655. Visual Defects
In nearsightedness, light rays are focused in front of what part of the eye?
retina
2656. Pirates
In the early 19th century, Jean Lafitte prowled the waters of what gulf?
Gulf of Mexico
2657. Balloons
Hot-air balloons fly because what property of the air inside the balloon is less than that of the air outside the balloon?
density
2658. Asian Seas
Karachi, Pakistan, is adjacent to what sea?
Arabian Sea
2659. Historical Periods
Much of what we know today of painting and sculpture, of architecture and political science, of scientific method and economic theory, we owe to the artists, politicians, statesmen, bankers, and merchants of what period between 1300 and 1600?
Renaissance
2660. Business Markup
If a store pays $40 to a wholesaler for a Swiss Army eyebrow curler and then sells it for $75, what is the markup?
87.5%
2661. Electricity
What is the opposition of a substance to electrical current passing through it called?
resistance
2662. Storms
What does a citizen of Samoa or Fiji call a tropical storm with winds of at least 74 mph?
typhoon
2663. Courthouses
The private offices or rooms of a judge in a courthouse are his ...
chambers
2664. Aviation History
Name the first American aircraft to break the sound barrier.
Bell X-1
2665. Negative Angles
An angle of -90 degrees is the same as what positive angle?
270 degrees
2666. Skeletal Anatomy
What skeletal structure connects the spine to the femurs?
pelvis (pelvic girdle)
2667. Tragedies
Nineteen members of what kind of elite crew of U.S. firefighters lost their lives in 2013 while battling a wildfire near Prescott, Arizona?
Hotshot
2668. Conditionals
What conjunction is used in most conditional
statements?
2669. Symbols
Depictions of the Grim Reaper often show him carrying what kind of agricultural implement?
scythe
2670. Participles
What type of participle is illustrated in this line? Overwhelmed, she continued to swoon.
past participle
2671. Native American Neighborhoods
What is the term for the traditional multi-level stone or adobe apartment dwellings which, in New Mexico, have these names? Acoma, Cochiti, Jemez, Laguna, Zia, Taos
pueblo
2672. 13th-Century Japan
Kublai Khan tried twice to invade Japan but was repulsed by timely typhoons and by what famed professional feudal warriors?
samurai
2673. Documents
Complete this line from the 'Communist Manifesto.' The history of all hitherto existing society is the history of ...
class struggles
2674. Political Birds
Metaphorically speaking, what kind of birds reject the 'appeasement leads to war' argument of the hawks?
doves
2675. History of Technology
In 1901 he sent the Morse code for 's' from Cornwall, England to St. Johns, Newfoundland. Who sent this first transatlantic radio signal?
Guglielmo Marconi
2676. Ridges
The central crack running north and south in the Mid-Atlantic Ridge is called what kind of zone?
rift zone
2677. Novels
In what story by Lois Lowry is Jonas chosen to be the Receiver of Memory?
The Giver
2678. Friction
These factors determine what characteristic of a wire in an electrical system? -the length of the wire -the cross-sectional area of the wire -the temperature of the wire -the properties of the material the wire is made from
resistance
2679. High Crimes
What federal crime involves gathering secret information related to national security and transmitting it to enemies of the United States.
espionage (spying)
2680. Artists
This is about whom? A single one of his statues, 'Moses' or 'Lorenzo de' Medici' would have made him immortal. He said he was no painter but he decorated the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel without assistance, alone with his vision, for more than four years.
Michelangelo
2681. Disease Prevention
In 2004, the FDA attempted to prevent the spread of what disease by prohibiting the feeding of chicken waste and cow blood to cattle and by banning the use of dead or injured cows in the manufacture of cosmetics, soups, and dietary supplements?
mad cow disease
2682. Tall Dunes
Extending over 1600 feet from the base to the top, the world's highest sand dunes are in what Asian desert?
Gobi
2683. Diving
More than 50 tower dives are grouped into five categories. Group I includes forward dives. Group IV includes inward dives. What kind of dives are in group VI?
armstand dives
2684. Island Histories
This occurred on what islands? A revolutionary 'committee of safety,' organized by Sanford B. Dole called in U.S. Marines from a nearby cruiser, supposedly to protect American lives, and established a new government with Dole as president.
Hawaiian Islands (Hawaii)
2685. The Senate
The Constitution requires senators to choose a president pro tempore to preside over the Senate in the absence of what other official?
vice president
2686. Base Conversions
Express as a decimal number the base 6 number 423.
159
2687. Forces
What force has caused the shape of the Earth to be deformed from a sphere to an oblate spheroid?
centrifugal force
2688. Oceanographic Tools
What kind of machine determines water depth by measuring the time it takes for sound waves to reach the seafloor and bounce back to the surface?
echo sounder (or sounder)
2689. Division in Other Bases
Divide 1011 base 2 by 11 base 2.
11 remainder 10 (or 3 rem. 2)
2690.
Food regurgitated from the first stomach to the mouth of a ruminant such as a giraffe, cow, or goat is the ...
cud
2691. Engines
During which stroke of a four-stroke engine are burned gases forced out of the cylinder?
exhaust stroke
2692. Monuments
What monument in Arizona, Colorado, New Mexico, and Utah is administered by the Navajo Nation Parks and Recreation Department?
Four Corners Monument
2693. Painters
It depicts a firing squad of French troops executing Spaniards. Entitled 'The Third of May 1808,' this painting was created by Francisco ...
Goya
2694. Fantasy Creatures
A basilisk or cockatrice is what kind of legendary creature that kills with its breath or gaze?
reptile (serpent, dragon, lizard)
2695. Animal Adjectives
What adjective indicates animals that are able to live on both land and water?
amphibious
2696. Latin American History
This is about what South American country? About 980 A.D., the Caras founded a prosperous kingdom called Quito, which was conquered by the Incas about 1470.
Ecuador
2697. Music
Scott Joplin's song, 'The Entertainer,' was used as the background music for what 1973 movie?
The Sting
2698. Drama
People may experience the same fears or joys of the characters when reading novels or watching plays. This mental entering into the feelings of a character is called ...
empathy
2699. Drugs
Benadryl is an antihistamine that relieves itching, but it also causes drowsiness. What is another name for this secondary effect?
side effect
2700. Wars
What war was precipitated by an explosion that killed 261 sailors and officers aboard a ship in Havana Harbor?
Spanish-American War
2701. Number Problems
Find the two numbers if the larger of two integers is 5/2 the smaller and if twice the smaller is subtracted
from twice the larger, the difference is 12.
2702. Rhyme
What is the rhyme scheme of this verse by William Wordsworth? When she I loved looked every day Fresh as a rose in June, I to her cottage bent my way, Beneath the evening moon.
ABAB
2703. Dendrological Poetry
Longfellow speaks of what kind of tree in the first line of 'The Village Blacksmith'?
chestnut
2704. Exponential Division
Divide P to the tenth power by P squared.
P to the 8th
2705. Canyons
It is the lower part of a valley or mountain canyon eroded to a depth below present sea level by a glacier which followed this course to the sea. Such a deep, steep canyon is called a...
fiord
2706. Deaths
In March of 1983, Barney Clark died. One hundred twelve days earlier, what artificial device had been implanted in his chest?
heart
2707. Gears
What kind of gears surround a sun gear?
planetary gears
2708. Trigonometry
On an alphabetical list, which trigonometric ratio is last?
tangent
2709. Solvents
What is the solvent in an aqueous solution?
water
2710. Song Parodies
This is a parody of what song? May-o, May-ay-ay-o Give me a sandwich, but hold the may-o May, me say may-ay-ay-o Give me a sandwich, but hold the mayo
The Banana Boat Song
2711. Waves and Particles
In quantum mechanics, particles may sometimes behave like waves and waves may sometimes behave like what?
particles
2712. European Capitals
What is the capital of the country that borders the Bay of Biscay, the Mediterranean Sea, and the English Channel?
Paris
2713. Offensives
The last desperate German offensive occurred in 1944. Name this battle.
Battle of the Bulge (the Ardennes Forest)
2714. Marine Life
Name the dominant planktonic algae with cells enclosed in shells of silica.
diatoms
2715. Birds and Lovers
It perched on the bust of Pallas Athene. With what one word did this bird answer the questions of a bereaved lover?
nevermore
2716. Machines
Crowbars, seesaws, and nutcrackers are examples of what simple machine?
lever
2717. Expressions
What word is missing from these expressions? ----head ----ing somebody on a good ---- having ---- on your face
egg
2718. Ecological Disasters
In 2010, the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico became the worst in U.S. history, far surpassing the worst previous spill in 1989 from what damaged supertanker?
Exxon Valdez
2719. Vice Presidents
Alexander Stephens was vice president of what country?
Confederate States of America
2720. Earth Science
These terms relate to what geophysical phenomenon? erratics drumlins kames moraines fiords cirques
glaciers (glaciation)
2721. Combustion
These steps occur in what kind of combustion? -A substance with a relatively low ignition temperature release heat through oxidation or fermentation. -The heat cannot escape and the temperature rises above the ignition point. -Combustion occurs if oxygen is present.
spontaneous combustion
2722. Honest Numbers
Honest numbers are numbers that can be described using exactly the same number of letters in standard mathematical English. For example, 4 = 'four,' 8 = 'two cubed,' and 11 = 'two plus nine.' Show how 14 is an honest number.
'seven plus seven'
2723. Biped Characteristics
These are categories of what structures on certain bipeds? vaned, downy, pennaceous, contour
feathers
2724. Government Agencies
Created in 1908, what is the primary investigative arm of the U.S. Department of Justice?
FBI (Federal Bureau of Investigation)
2725. French
What is the common French expression meaning 'That's life!'?
C'est la vie
2726. Poems
What character spoke these words in a poem by Robert Browning? I'm able by means of a secret charm, to draw All creatures living beneath the sun, That creep, or swim, or fly, or run, After me so as you never saw!
Pied Piper
2727. Mortgages
Fran's home is worth $250,000 but she owes a mortgage balance of $225,000. What is her equity?
$25,000
2728. Chemical Compounds
The name for what incendiary substance is an acronym derived from the naphthenic and palmitic acids from which the gelling agent is made?
napalm
2729. Fables
In an Aesop fable, a skinny wolf meets a strong, fat mastiff. The wolf is envious at first, but then notices the dog's collar mark resulting from being tied up, often keeping him from running around wherever he wants. Seeing that, the wolf runs off to the forest. The moral is that it is better to starve free than to be a fat ...
slave (prisoner, captive)
2730. Walls
Name the Roman emperor who ordered the construction of a wall to prevent enemies from invading England from Scotland.
Hadrian
2731. Fishing
Name the rings of hardened metal or ceramics attached to a fishing rod that carry the line.
guides
2732. Typography
What is the next descender in the alphabet following
the letter 'g'?
2733. Science Fiction
This is from what British science fiction work? On Earth, man had always assumed that he was more intelligent than dolphins because he had achieved so much - the wheel, New York, wars, and so on - whilst all the dolphins had ever done was muck about in the water having a good time. But conversely, the dolphins had always believed that they were far more intelligent than man for the same reasons.
The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy
2734. Sports
In what sport is there a goal crease?
hockey
2735. Art Viewing
Also known as the center of interest, the area within a composition at which the emphasis is greatest and where the viewer's eye is continually drawn is called {Oss
focal point
2736. Diseases
This disease has been virtually eliminated from the U.S. Nevertheless it is still recommended that children should be immunized against it. Name this viral disease that causes paralysis.
polio
2737. Silicate Minerals
Some rock-forming silicate minerals such as feldspars and quartz are nonferromagnesians. What two elements are lacking in these minerals?
magnesium, iron
2738. Trapezoids
The area of a trapezoid is 20 square feet. Its altitude is 5 feet and one of its bases is 5 feet. What is the length of the other base?
3 feet
2739. Novels
In the novel, 'Holes,' the mild-mannered school teacher named Miss Katherine becomes what notorious outlaw?
Kissin' Kate Barlow
2740. Electricity
The supplied energy of a voltage source is reduced as an electric current moves through a part of a circuit that consumes power. This is called voltage what?
drop
2741. Force
Name the force that is transmitted through a string, rope, cable, or wire when it is pulled tight from opposite ends.
tension
2742. Symphonies
What are the individual parts of a composite musical work such as a symphony or concerto called?
movements
2743. Science Fiction
In what work by Kurt Vonnegut does a religious prophet preach comfortable untruths called 'foma' to members of corporations and other 'granfalloons'?
Cat's Cradle
2744. Apparel
Sabots, mukluks, brogans, and clogs are examples of what?
shoes (boots, footwear)
2745. Wage Hikes
In 1914, when factory workers were paid about eleven dollars a week, what major U.S. industrialist announced that his employees would earn five dollars for an eight-hour shift?
Henry Ford
2746. Continental Margins
A continental margin is divided into three parts including the continental rise, the continental slope, and the continental ...
shelf
2747.
What is the term for that imaginary line where the Sun's rotation is fastest?
equator
2748. U
The region known as the Bay Area is around what bay?
San Francisco Bay
2749. Civil War Leaders
Both the North and the South offered command of their armies to what Virginian?
Robert E. Lee
2750. Homonyms
What term can refer to either the main nebulous part of the head of a comet or to a state of deep prolonged unconsciousness?
coma
2751. Geology
What was formed in these ways? -mineral infiltration of interstitial spaces of dead organisms -organisms becoming embedded in pitch -organisms frozen in permafrost or glaciers -organism impressions in sedimentary rock
fossils
2752. Political Power
What political party ruled the Soviet Union?
Communist Party
2753. Reports
In the 1960s, the surgeon general released a report which described what factor as outweighing all other factors as a cause of lung disease?
cigarette smoking
2754. Power Plants
What kind of power plants frequently incorporate heliostats?
solar power plants
2755. Mechanics
What is the term for direct-contact bodies, operating in pairs, that transmit force and motion from one rotating shaft to another by means of successively engaging profiles of teeth?
gears
2756. Authority
The political doctrine that holds that sovereign political authority resides with the citizens of a state is known as what kind of sovereignty?
popular sovereignty
2757. Root Words
What does the root mean in these words? invisible, revise, provision, supervise
see (look)
2758. Infinitives
What kind of infinitive is illustrated in these phrases? to fastidiously describe to diligently follow to ever so slightly nudge to cheerlessly amble
split infinitive
2759. Science Fiction
These lines come from what dreadful science fiction story? -I'd hate to wake up some morning and find out that you weren't you. -They're here already! You're next! You're next! -Well, I don't know what they are. I never saw them before. They looked like great big seed nods.
Invasion of the Body Snatchers
2760. Wartime Offensives
The last major offensive by the German army in World War II was called the Battle of the ...
Bulge
2761. Famous Folks
These people all lived in what state? Horatio Alger Susan Anthony Clara Barton Luther Burbank John Quincy Adams Ralph Waldo Emerson John F. Kennedy
Massachusetts
2762. Hurricanes
In what part of a hurricane is the air warmest?
eye
2763. Literary Clubs
These are American literary societies devoted to what author? Red-Headed League of Westtown, Pennsylvania Hounds of the Baskervilles of Chicago
Arthur Conan Doyle
2764. Societal Groups
The following are examples of what small communities in which the members share common interests, property, possessions, resources, work, and income? Harmony Society, Brook Farm, Twin Oaks, Oneida Community, Amana Colonies
communes
2765. Architecture
What kind of architectural structure is atop the Capitol's rotunda in Washington, D.C.?
dome
2766. U
Key West lies between the tip of Florida and what island?
Cuba
2767. Legends
What creature is described by Himalayan tribesmen as a giant creature having an upright stance, a covering of black to reddish hair, and the appearance of a bear, ape, or human?
yeti (abominable snowman)
2768. Ecology Abbreviations
Regarding populations, what is the meaning of 'ZPG'?
zero population growth
2769. The Poles
Perennial coverings of ice and snow over extensive areas at the poles are called ice what?
caps (sheets)
2770. Poetic Counsel
This is from what poem by William Cullen Bryant? So live, that when thy summons comes to join The innumerable caravan, which moves To that mysterious realm, where each shall take His chamber in the silent halls of death, Thou go not, like the quarry-slave at night.
Thanatopsis
2771. Plant Anatomy
What part of a plant cell consists of layers of a tough carbohydrate called cellulose?
cell wall
2772. Nullification
In 1832, what state, after voting to nullify federal tariffs, stated that federal enforcement of those tariffs would be cause for secession?
South Carolina
2773. Viceroyalties
Name the Spanish viceroyalty that consisted of Mexico, what is now the U.S. Southwest, and Central America to Costa Rica.
New Spain
2774. Plate Tectonics
The Cascadia subduction zone is on the eastern flank of what plate?
Juan de Fuca plate
2775. Libraries
Name the de facto U.S. national library.
Library of Congress
2776. Novels
To what fictional character does the pronoun refer in this passage? Using the knife with which he had murdered Basil, he stabbed the frightful portrait.
Dorian Gray
2777.
Red eye in photographs occurs when a strobe light enters the eye and reflects off the ...
retina
2778. Exponents
Four raised to what power equals eight?
3/2 (or 1.5) power
2779. Plant Reproduction Analogies
Onions are to bulbs as potatoes are to ...
tubers
2780. Shootings
In September of 1975, Lynette Fromme took her shot in Sacramento, California. In that same month, Sara Jane Moore made her try in San Francisco. Who were they trying to kill?
Gerald Ford
2781. Revolutionary Assaults
What fort between Lake Champlain and Lake George in New York was seized in 1775 by the Green Mountain Boys of Vermont?
Fort Ticonderoga
2782. History of Law
What emperor of the Byzantine Empire ordered his scholars to collect and organize all Roman law into a single code?
Justinian
2783. Colonies
In 1692, the Plymouth Colony ended up being absorbed by what larger colony?
Massachusetts Bay Colony
2784. Algebraic Factoring
Factor 4(x squared) - 3x + 20x - 15.
(x+5)(4x-2)
2785. Archipelagoes
Name the northernmost archipelago through which the International Date Line runs.
Aleutians
2786. Operatic Settings
What city that is the setting for 'Madame Butterfly' was also the target for the second atomic bomb of World War II?
Nagasaki
2787. Half-Lives
The half-life of a radioactive isotope is 15 hours. 7/8 of a sample of this isotope will decay in how many hours?
45 hours
2788. World Geography
All countries from Mexico through Central America to the southern tip of South America along with the Caribbean islands are collectively known as ...
Latin America
2789. Alloys
What alloy, consisting mostly of tin mixed with copper or antinomy, was widely used in the Middle Ages in tankards, flagons, steins, and tableware?
pewter
2790. Dance
These traditional dances are mainly associated with what U.S. state? Cajun Jig Cajun Two Step Cajun Jitterbug Cajun Waltz
Louisiana
2791. Mammals
What edentate mammal received its name because it feeds entirely on hymenopterous insects?
anteater
2792. Poems about Legendary Heroes
This is from a poem about what character? So it is: yet let us sing, Honour to the old bow-string! Honour to the bugle-horn! Honour to the woods unshorn! Honour to the Lincoln green! Honour to the archer keen! Honour to tight little John, And the horse he rode upon!
Robin Hood
2793. Symbolic Writing
As a symbol of 'mournful and never-ending remembrance,' Edgar Allan Poe used what bird of ill omen in one of his poems?
raven
2794. Manufacturing
Previously it had taken one man 18 minutes to assemble a magneto, but his assembly line cut that time to 5 minutes. He then extended the system to the production of entire automobiles. Who was this industrialist?
Henry Ford
2795. Stars
The brightest star in the constellation Centaurus and the third brightest star in the sky is Alpha ...
Centauri
2796. Composers
'Phonic' is an anagram for what French composer and pianist whose works were largely based on traditional Polish dance themes?
Chopin
2797. Maritime Disasters
This is from a poem about what ship? On April 15, 1912, It tolled its final bell As the band played solemnly 'Nearer, my God, to Thee.' The great ship sank to its ocean grave, But some 705 souls were saved.
Titanic
2798. 5
Those involved in manufacturing fireworks are in what field?
pyrotechnics
2799. Newspapers
What is the term for a newspaper issue of one press run?
edition
2800. Aircraft
What kind of tethered aircraft was used in Benjamin Franklin's experiment that proved lightning is electricity?
kite
2801. Tales
This is from what story by Poe? I now grew very pale, but I talked more fluently and with a heightened voice. Yet the sound increased and what could I do? It was a low, dull, sound, much such a sound as a watch makes when enveloped in cotton.
The Tell-Tale Heart
2802. Murder by Another Name
Occurring mostly in third-world countries, hundreds if not thousands of women are murdered every year by members of their own families because of such supposed disgraces as rejecting an arranged marriage, wearing unacceptable clothes, or having insufficient dowries. These are known as what kind of killings?
honor killings
2803. Traditions
In what kind of ceremonial lodge did many Native American groups pour water over heated rocks to produce steam?
sweat lodge
2804. The Restless Earth
Fossils of Mesosaurus, a small aquatic reptile, and of Glossopteris, an ancient plant species, have been found in both southern Africa and the southern part of South America. This is evidence supporting what theory of Alfred Wegener?
continental drift
2805. Modifiers
How are the adjectives used in these examples? The auk is gorgeous. Your grasp of Dr. Seuss is remarkable. The garbage under the sink smells rotten.
predicate adjectives
2806. Capital Quips
Complete this example of punnery with a US. state capital city. One Idaho worker said to the other Idaho worker, 'The boss is coming, look ...'
Boise
2807. Amendments
The 17th Amendment states 'The Senate of the United States shall be composed of two Senators from each State, elected by the people thereof, for six years.' The phrase, 'elected by the people thereof' replaced what words in the original Constitution?
chosen by the Legislature thereof
2808. Plant Modifications
These are modifications of what fundamental part of a plant? bulb corm rhizome stolon tuber
stem
2809. French Physicians
The Frenchman Rene Laennec invented what instrument that enables doctors to listen to sounds within a patient's chest?
stethoscope
2810. Disputed Islands
What nation remained interested in the 1990s in reclaiming the Kuril Islands?
Japan
2811. Root Words
What is the meaning of the root word in precise, concise, decision, and incision?
cut
2812. Novel Quotations
This is from what work of science fiction? In the beginning the universe was created. This has made a lot of people very angry and has been widely regarded as a bad move.
Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy
2813. Seasons
When it is springtime in Salmon, Idaho, what season is it in Kabul, Afghanistan?
spring
2814. Legal Synonyms
What is a synonym for the crime of abduction?
kidnapping
2815. Personal Records
These are lines from whose 20th record of personal experiences and observations? -Look how a single candle can both defy and define the darkness. -Think of all the beauty still left around you and be happy. -I can shake off everything as I write. My sorrows disappear; my courage is reborn.
Anne Frank
2816. Leafy Vegetables
Uncooked cabbage may be sliced and eaten as slaw or fermented in brine to become what?
sauerkraut
2817. Historical Trials
This is about whose trial? The arraignment of the chief officer of the Republic was made by the representatives of Congress and held before the Chief Justice of the United States presiding in the Senate chambers.
Andrew Johnson (or Bill Clinton)
2818. Legislatures
What legislative body successfully waged the American War of Independence?
Continental Congress
2819. Holidays
During what month is Labor Day celebrated by American workers?
September
2820. Science Fiction
What name for an incarnation of Vishnu was also used by Arthur Clarke for an enormous, cylindrically shaped space ship?
Rama
2821. Ocean Currents
Where there is a gully or stream bed running up a beach, the outgoing flow from ocean waves may be channeled into what kind of current?
rip current
2822. History of Astronomy
An ancient textbook on astronomy spoke about the fixed and wandering stars. Today, what name is given to these 'wandering stars'?
planets
2823.
Multiply 3 factorial by 4 factorial.
144
2824. Square Root
Round the square root of 34 to the nearest tenth.
5.8
2825. Fiction
'Not every thirteen-year-old girl is accused of murder, brought to trial, and found guilty' is the opening line to a novel entitled, 'The True Confessions of Charlotte' who?
Doyle
2826. Water
Surface tension is one of the two phenomena that cause rainwater drops to collect into drops at the ends of pine needles. What is the other that is somewhat like 'stickiness' between two different substances?
adhesion
2827. Radiation
Which type of radiation is released from medical x-rays and nuclear blasts?
ionizing radiation
2828. Physics
Anything that tends to change the state of rest or motion of an object is called a what?
a force
2829. Astronomical Discoveries
In 1877, astronomer Asaph Hall discovered Phobos and Deimos, the moons of what planet?
Mars
2830. Conflict
What is the German word that means 'conflict' or 'altercation' or 'quarrel'?
Streit
2831. Matter
What is the term for the change of a substance to a denser phase?
condensation
2832. Mixture Problems
What is the cost of a mixture of 3 pounds of jelly beans at $3.25 per pound and 5 pounds of jelly beans at $2.95 per pound?
$24.50
2833. Oceans
The Pacific Ocean was named from the Spanish adjective 'pacifico' meaning ...
peaceful (calm)
2834. Oceanside Cities
These cities are contiguous with what ocean? Stanley Montevideo Recife Rio de Janeiro
Atlantic Ocean
2835. Official Titles
What title of an officer empowered to enforce hunting regulations is also that of the chief administrator of a prison?
warden
2836. Reflections
What is the repetition of a radar or sonar signal by reflection from a surface called?
echo
2837. Malleability
The two general procedures by which a malleable material may be turned into a thin sheet are rolling and what other way?
hammering (pounding)
2838. The Earth
All of the water in, on, or above the Earth's surface comprises what sphere of the planet?
hydrosphere
2839. Muscle
What type of muscle tissue accounts for about 40% of one's body's weight?
skeletal (striated)
2840. Climates
Arrange these climates from driest to wettest. 1) sub-humid 2) wet 3) arid 4) semi-arid 5) humid
34152
2841. Fictional Assistants
Name Dr. Frankenstein's assistant.
Igor
2842. Latin American Capitals
In 1970, the capital of what nation was moved to Belmopan from its former site at Belize City?
Belize
2843. Novels
Catherine, who keeps birds in her room, has a mother who wants to make her 'a fine lady - dumb, docile, and accomplished' and a father who wants 'to sell her like a cheese to some lack-wit seeking a wife.' In this book by Karen Cushman, Catherine is called ...
Birdy
2844. Westerns
In Larry McMurtry's 'Lonesome Dove,' who is Woodrow Call's unacknowledged son?
Newt
2845. Crime Slang
What color of collar is associated with crimes such as investment fraud and income tax evasion?
white
2846. Argentina
What is the Argentinian name for the islands in the South Atlantic, the capital of which is Stanley?
Malvinas
2847. Work Problems
Bob worked twice as long as Jan. Jan worked one hour more than Kim. Kim worked 2 hours less than Pedro. Pedro worked 3 hours. How many hours did Bob work?
4 hours
2848. Local Government Actions
Name the formal process through which a city limit might be extended to include additional territory.
annexation
2849. Stellar Brightness
The three factors determine the apparent brightness of a star as seen from Earth include how big it is, how hot it is, and ...
how far away it is
2850. American Nonfiction
This is from what book? When I wrote the following pages, or rather the bulk of them, I lived alone, in the woods, a mile from any neighbor, in a house which I had built myself.
Walden
2851. Russian Cities
The Fortress of St. Peter and Paul was the original fortress around which what major Russian city was built?
St. Petersburg
2852. Ailments
It can be caused by a cold or an allergy. The most noticeable symptom of the ailment is hoarseness and even the temporary loss of voice. Name this ailment.
laryngitis
2853. Stability
The aerodynamic stability of arrows is improved by fletching and, for bullets, by what in the barrels of firearms?
rifling
2854. Microorganisms
Methanogens fall into what category of unicellular, prokaryotic microorganisms?
bacteria
2855. Scientific Syndromes
The closest the U.S. has come to the China Syndrome was in 1979 at what site?
Three Mile Island
2856.
Billy the Kid's life of crime began in the territory that became what state?
New Mexico
2857. Valleys
U-shaped valleys common in Norway, Alaska, Chile, and New Zealand carved by great rivers of ice are called ...
fiords
2858. Liquids
What property of a liquid increases with depth?
density
2859. Winds
What major winds govern the climate of India?
monsoons
2860. Herons
Only one species of heron does not live permanently in marshland. Name these birds that live near cattle and are often seen perching on the backs of cattle, buffalo, and elephants eating insects.
cattle egrets
2861. Direct Objects
What is the direct object of the gerund phrase in this sentence? Picking up supplies was one of his most important daily duties.
supplies
2862. Awards
What coveted awards are given annually by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences?
Oscars
2863. Settings
What state is the setting for the work, 'A Day No Pigs Would Die'?
Vermont
2864. Evil Plants
A work by John Wyndham in which the survivors of mysterious explosions in space are hounded by monster plants is entitled 'The Day of the ...'
Triffids
2865. Health
The period between the introduction of a disease-causing organism into the body and the onset of symptoms is called ...
incubation
2866. British Legends
Who commanded Sir Bedivere to throw Excalibur away?
King Arthur
2867. Modern Warfare
What adjective applies to bombs and missiles which can be electronically programmed to seek specific targets?
smart
2868. Precipitation
Western Oregon tends to receive a great deal of precipitation while eastern Oregon on the other side of the mountains tends to have a dry climate. This results from what effect?
rainshadow effect
2869. Epitaphs
Translate this Spanish epitaph from the grave of Billy the Kid. Duerme Bien
sleep well
2870. Travel Problems
Aukville and Dodotown are 210 miles apart. A car left Aukville heading to Dodotown at 48 mph. Another car left Dodotown for Aukville at 42 mph. How many miles had the faster car gone when the two vehicles met?
112
2871. Medieval Architecture
In medieval times, what kind of building complexes were most commonly surrounded by moats?
castles
2872. Wonders
The exotic shrubs and flowers in the Hanging Gardens of Babylon were irrigated by water pumped from what river?
Euphrates
2873.
What war provides the backdrop to the Homeric epics?
Trojan War
2874. Averages
Roy caught an 8-pound bass and an 11-pound bass. How much must his third bass weigh in order that all his fish average 7 pounds?
2 pounds
2875.
In what tiny independent state within Italy did Michelangelo paint the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel?
Vatican City
2876. Fog
The foggiest place in the world is the Grand Banks off what major Canadian island?
Newfoundland
2877. Presidential Visitations
What U.S. president visited Panama in 1906 to personally assess progress on the canal?
Theodore Roosevelt
2878. Industrial Revolutionaries
Abraham Darby was the first man to smelt iron ore with coke instead of what other fuel?
charcoal
2879. Trapezoids
What kind of trapezoid has base angles that are congruent?
isosceles trapezoid
2880. Straits
What country is on both sides of the Cook Strait?
New Zealand
2881. Massacres
The My Lai Massacre of 1968 occurred in what country?
Vietnam (South Vietnam)
2882. Termites
In a termite nest, the only female that lays eggs is called the what?
queen
2883. Cave Resources
Bat guano taken from what spectacular cave system in Kentucky was used to make gunpowder during the War of 1812?
Mammoth Cave
2884. Garden Veggies
These are varieties of what vegetable? spaghetti yellow zucchini
squash
2885.
What sense modality is subject to olfactory hallucinations?
smell
2886. Coastal Landforms
A broad region of muddy or sandy sediment that is covered and uncovered in each tidal cycle is called a tidal what?
flat
2887. Leaders
What is this about? It starts as an invisible discharge called a stepped leader which moves downward in discrete steps. The stepped leader may be initiated by a small discharge near the cloud base, releasing free electrons that move earthward.
lightning
2888. Mysteries
What state is the setting for these mysteries? The Tanglewood Murder Transcendental Murder Mayflower Murder Fatal Cape Cod Funeral Murder at Plymouth Plantation Murder at Walden Pond
Massachusetts
2889. Meetings
In what year did the first Electoral College meet?
1789
2890. Zoology
Ecologically speaking, what is the collective term for all these animals? polar bears, saltwater crocodiles, tigers, wolves, great white sharks, hyenas, anacondas
predators
2891. Amendment Language
What term in the Second Amendment means transgressed, violated, or encroached?
infringed
2892. Writing
What point of view is used when the main character tells the story in his or her own words?
first person
2893. Aviation
Pilots of what kind of aircraft rely on dolphining and thermalling to gain altitude?
gliders
2894. Southeast Asia
Cambodia's climate is controlled by seasonal winds called ...
monsoons
2895. Journalism
What type of newspaper is likely to carry these kinds of headlines? -Farmer Finds Elvis! Brain in Barn -Alien Termites Devour N.W. Detroit -President Cloned by KGB -Amelia Earhart Seen in Oval Office -Woman in Tornado Has Same Baby Three Times
tabloid
2896. Disasters
This is about a conflagration in what city? The fire broke out in a baker's shop in Pudding Lane in 1666 and burned for three days and three nights. Much of the city was destroyed, including the old Gothic cathedral of St. Paul's.
London
2897. Conquistadors
What Spanish conquistador discovered Baja California?
Hernando Cortes
2898. Paneling Problems
The cost of paneling is $.60 per square foot. How much will it cost to panel a wall 26 feet wide and 8 feet high?
$124.80
2899. Photography
A deepfocus shot is one in which both the foreground and the background are in focus. Such a shot has an exceptional depth of ...
field
2900. Henry Ford
Henry Ford said, 'I will build a motor car for the great multitude.' What car fulfilled this promise?
Model T
2901. Agreements
Any legally enforceable agreement between two or more persons involving mutual promises to do or not to do something is a ...
contract
2902. Story Starters
What English story begins with this line? Alice was beginning to get tired of sitting by her sister on the bank and of having nothing to do.
Alice's Adventures in Wonderland
2903. European Rivers
What river arises in the Cotswold Hills of southwest England and flows southeastward through the cities of Oxford and London to the North Sea?
Thames
2904. Opulent Pops
An elderly, wealthy man who lavishes expensive presents on a young woman may be referred to as what kind of daddy?
sugar daddy
2905. Prisons
The most famous captive held in the French prison of Chateau d'If was what fictional prisoner created by Alexandre Dumas?
Edmund Dantes (Count of Monte Cristo)
2906. Threats
This is about what creatures? They live in huge colonies of up to ten million insects. Formerly confined to Louisiana, this Formosan variety is now happily chewing its way from Virginia to Hawaii.
termites
2907. Contemporary Conundrums
What is the phrase for the position of those who oppose abortion and believe that a fetus is a person?
right to life
2908.
Since a round table has no sides, no one can sit in a privileged position. Therefore, reminiscent of a part of the body, it lacks what?
a head
2909. Archaic Language
Here is a verse from 'The Rime of the Ancient Mariner.' He holds him with his skinny hand, 'There was a ship,' quote he. 'Hold off! unhand me, grey-beard loon!' Eftsoons his hand dropt he. What does 'eftsoons' mean?
presently (soon afterward, shortly, etc.)
2910. Federal Finance
Through what agency does the Department of the Treasury collect federal taxes?
Internal Revenue Service
2911. Joints
The abbreviation, ROM, indicating the amount of movement available at a joint, is short for what?
range of motion
2912. Novels
In what story by Daniel Keyes do Charlie Gordon and a mouse undergo experimental surgery to improve their intelligence?
Flowers for Algernon
2913. European Historical Sites
These are World Heritage sites in what country? Botanical Garden of Padua Basilica of St. Francis at Assisi Piazza del Duomo in Pisa
Italy
2914. 4
Which constellation is the Herdsman?
Bootes
2915. Temperatures
What theoretical temperature would be reached under either condition below? -a gas would exert no pressure -the molecules in a substance would be absolutely motionless
absolute zero
2916. Vitamins
Only oranges and lemons have more vitamin C than what other citrus fruit?
grapefruit
2917. Peninsula History
The rugged Balkan Peninsula juts crooked fingers southward from Europe into the eastern Mediterranean. Name the great civilization that developed on the southern end of this peninsula.
Greek (Greece)
2918. Ancient Literature
This is from what Homeric epic? 'Cyclops,' I said, 'you wish to know the name I bear. My name is Nobody. That is what I am called by my mother, father and my friends.' The Cyclops answered me with a cruel jest. 'Of all his company I will eat Nobody last, and the rest before him.'
Odyssey
2919. Conics
This equation describes which conic section? 4(x squared) - y squared = 36
hyperbola
2920. Botany
What noun beginning with 'f' indicates the mass of leaves on a plant?
foliage
2921.
How is the prepositional phrase used below? The best time for study is in the night.
noun
2922. Radioactivity
The half-life of a radioactive element is 300 years. A sample of 12 grams of this element will be reduced to 3 grams in how many years?
600 years
2923. Hallucinations
Name the Alfred Hitchcock movie based on the hallucination of spinning.
Vertigo
2924.
What did Bertrand Russell say that 'from the earliest times has made greater claims and achieved fewer results than any other branch of learning'?
philosophy
2925. Bio-Mathematical Poetry
What word completes this ditty? One and one make two, But if one and one should marry, Isn't it queer- Within a year There's two and one to ...
carry
2926. Feasts
Name the type of feast in which this traditional food is often featured. poi, kalua pig, poke, lomi, opihi, haupia
luau
2927. Ores
The inorganic compound, iron arsenide sulfide, is a major ore of what poisonous element?
arsenic
2928. Scientific Instruments
A rotating triple objective may be on what scientific instrument?
microscope
2929. The Constitution
What U.S. constitutional term indicates the process by which each state gets a number of representatives determined by its population?
apportionment
2930. Vote Losses
What crisis that occupied Jimmy Carter during his last months in office may well have been the single most important factor in his defeat by Ronald Reagan in the 1980 election?
Iran hostage crisis
2931. Critical Technology
The most significant invention that gave birth to the Industrial Revolution was what kind of engine?
steam engine
2932. Explorers
Identify the Portuguese explorer who was the first European to contact the indigenous people of what is now Brazil.
Pedro Cabral
2933. Imperialism
What was the last British colony in Asia?
Hong Kong
2934. Infinitives
What is the infinitive in this sentence? Last weekend, Gerald asked me if I would help him pack for his trip to the Yukon.
to pack
2935. Mexicans
Name the Mexican leader of several thousand troops who annihilated 187 Texans defending a mission.
Santa Anna
2936. Greek Myths
Hercules freed what Greek mythical hero from the chains binding him to a rock?
Prometheus
2937. Quotes
Sam Ervin referred to what amendment when he said this? You urge adoption of an amendment to authorize prayer in public schools. This alters the amendment commanding the government to be neutral in matters of religion.
1st amendment
2938. Angles
From 130 degrees 29 minutes 43 seconds subtract 20 degrees 30 minutes 40 seconds.
109 degrees 59 minutes 3 seconds
2939. Scientific Vocabulary
What term has these meanings? -the distance a signal can travel -the difference between the highest and the lowest of a set of values -the geographic region in which a plant or animal may be found
range
2940. Anthropology
What is the collective name for the traditions of a group of people?
customs (practices, standards, conventions)
2941. Personalities
This is about whom? His final years brought revelations of a miserable personal life consumed by drugs. He died of an overdose, but his Memphis estate, Graceland, is now one of the most popular shrines in the country.
Elvis Presley
2942. Scientific Legacies
When Tycho Brahe died in 1601, he bequeathed his records of observations to whom?
Johannes Kepler
2943. Plunderers
What sea is associated with Jean Fleury, Calico Jack Rackham, Henry Morgan, and Edward Teach?
Caribbean
2944.
If three-fifths of q equals ten, what is q?
50/3 (or 16.66 or 16 2/3)
2945. Slavery
Slave trade in America and Europe ended during which century?
19th century
2946. Novel Portraits
This is from what novel by Oscar Wilde? How sad it is! I shall grow old, and horrid, and dreadful. But this picture will remain always young. It will never be older than this particular day of June. If it was only the other way! If it was I who were to be always young, and the picture that were to grow old! For this I would give everything!
The Picture of Dorian Gray
2947. Moon Missions
The European space probe that landed on Titan in 2005 found liquid flowing on its surface. Because it is much too cold for water to flow there, scientists guessed the liquid is what substance that is normally a gas on Earth?
methane
2948. Planets
On an alphabetical list of the inner terrestrial planets, which is last?
Venus
2949. Scientific Numeration
Express 5,200,000 in scientific notation.
5.2 times 10 to the 6th power
2950. Places in the U
It has a single, non-voting seat in the House of Representatives. It has a population greater than any one of seven states, and its residents pay more in taxes than any one of eleven states. Name this American district.
District of Columbia
2951. The Sahara
On an alphabetical list of the countries of the Sahara Desert, which is last?
Tunisia
2952. Historical Fiction
What war is the backdrop for the novel, 'My Brother Sam Is Dead'?
American Revolution
2953. Moh
According to Mohs scale, what is the hardness of
corundum?
2954. Substance Abuse
Those controlled substances that contribute to muscle bulk while having many harmful physical and psychological effects are called ...
steroids
2955. Dance
These are moves especially associated with what form of dancing? brush, pull, scuff, shuffle, riff, riffle
tap dancing
2956. Hymn Tropes
What are the two metaphors in these lines from a hymn? A mighty fortress is our God, A bulwark never failing.
fortress, bulwark
2957. Assassinations
What Asian leader of the world's largest democracy was assassinated by two of her own bodyguards in 1984?
Indira Gandhi
2958. Hosts
A host is the animal or plant that provides shelter and food for what kind of organisms?
parasites
2959. Literary Forms
What form of nonfiction resembles an autobiography but depicts only a portion of a person's life?
memoir (journal, diary)
2960.
The phrase, 'Forbidden City,' may indicate the Imperial Palace in Beijing, the city of Mecca in Saudi Arabia, the city of Harar in Ethiopia, or what city in Tibet?
Lhasa
2961. Europeans
What is the nationality of these people? Vidkun Quisling Henrik Ibsen Edvard Grieg Fridtjof Nansen Thor Heyerdahl Roald Amundsen
Norwegian
2962. The Senate
A temporary interruption of the Senate's unfinished business is called a ...
recess
2963. Health History
In the fifth century, the Hindu physician, Susruta, noted the relationships of malaria to mosquitoes and of plague to what mammals?
rats (or guinea pigs)
2964. Depths
The phrase, mark twain, actually indicates a depth of
two fathoms or how many feet?
2965. European Cities
To avoid raids by the Lombards, this tribe withdrew to the marshes of the Adriatic and built a town on stilts and piles driven into the mud with canals running throughout. In doing so, this tribe, the Veneti, founded what city?
Venice
2966. Landforms
These are examples of what kind of landforms? Horn in Chile Good Hope in South Africa Farewell in Greenland York in Australia Canaveral in Florida Cod in Massachusetts Hatteras in North Carolina
capes
2967. Lipids
What fatty acids consist of chains of carbon atoms containing at least one double chemical bond that links to two neighboring carbon atoms?
unsaturated
2968. Sentence Types
What sentence structure is illustrated in this? Success isn't permanent, and failure isn't fatal.
compound sentence
2969. Anthropology
During the Neolithic period, people began to train animals to live among humans. Name that process.
domestication
2970. Political Metaphors
A revered idea or institution which few dare to question is called a sacred what?
cow
2971. Animal Farm
In 'Animal Farm,' the original 6th commandment was that 'No animal shall kill any other animal.' But later, what phrase was added to it?
without cause
2972. Fields of Science
The study of the growth, structure, physical properties, and classification of crystals is called ...
crystallography
2973. Ancient Greece
This is about what ancient city-state? Weak infants were laid on a mountainside to die of exposure. From age seven, boys were trained in soldiering. They wore no clothes until age twelve. Then they lived in military barracks until age thirty.
Sparta
2974. English Novels
This is a partial synopsis of what novel? Young Jim set out on an adventure on the ship Hispanola to find buried treasure on Skeleton Island. On the cruise, he discovers his love of the sea and befriends John Silver.
Treasure Island
2975. Special Words
How are these pairs of phrases classified? Horatio Nelson - honor est a nilo Dame Eleanor Davies - never so mad a ladie Queen Victoria's jubilee - I require love in a subject
anagrams
2976. State Government
What official is primarily responsible for overseeing a state's budget?
governor
2977. Ornamentation
A chevron is a decorative motif consisting of the repetition of a shape resembling what letter of the
alphabet?
2978. Classical Compositions
What story set to music by Peter Tchaikovsky tells how a toy defends Clara Stahlbaum from the Mouse King and his rodent army?
The Nutcracker
2979. Water Storage
According to the U.S. Geological Survey, the greatest amount of fresh surface water in the state of Washington is not stored in the states lakes, reservoirs, and rivers but in what?
glaciers
2980. Colonial Impositions
Blanket search warrants in the English colonies authorized by the Townshend Acts of 1767 were called writs of what?
assistance
2981. Real Estate
Before Rocco could get a loan to buy a new house, the lending institution insisted on receiving an official estimate of the value of the property. What is the term for such an estimate?
appraisal
2982. Asian Change
In 1997, Hong Kong reverted to Chinese rule after 156 years as a colony of what country?
Great Britain (England)
2983. Showmen
Who ran a show that regularly included reenactments of Custer's Last Stand and the charge at San Juan Hill?
Buffalo Bill
2984. Money Problems
Pedro has 4 pesetas less than 3 times as much as Paloma. Pablo has one and one-half times as many as Paloma. They have 106 pesetas altogether. How many does Pablo have?
30
2985. Architectural History
Name the house that Edgar Kaufmann, a department store owner in Pittsburgh, had designed by Frank Lloyd Wright.
Fallingwater
2986. Court Rules
The exclusionary rule states that evidence secured by illegal means and in bad faith cannot be introduced in a criminal trial. It is based on which amendment?
4th (or 5th)
2987. Ocean Currents
In the North Atlantic, the equatorial current is deflected northward through the Caribbean where it becomes what other major current?
Gulf Stream
2988. Problem Solving
What method is involved when you attempt to find a solution by trying one approach after another until one happens to work?
trial and error
2989. Quick Switches
An electronic circuit operates once in 10 nanoseconds. How many operations does it perform in one second?
100 million
2990. Logic
What is the contrapositive of this statement? If p then q.
If not q then not p.
2991. Short Stories
In what story does Rainsford conclude that 'he had never slept in a better bed'?
The Most Dangerous Game
2992. Monsters
Spell the term rhyming with 'leaned' that means a demon or monster.
fiend
2993. Stars
A star is a ball of gases caught between the opposing forces of thermal nuclear energy trying to expand it and what force trying to contract it?
gravity
2994. Buried Cities
What Italian city buried in ashes for nearly 1600 years was named for the Greek hero associated with the Lernean hydra, the hind of Ceryneia, the Erymanthean boar, and the Augean stables?
Herculaneum
2995. 4
A person who endorses a particular candidate may wear a badge imprinted with the candidate's name or slogan. What is such a badge called?
campaign button
2996. The Nervous System
'ACh' is an abbreviation for what neurotransmitter?
acetylcholine
2997. Constitution History
Those who opposed ratification of the Constitution were called ...
anti-Federalists
2998. European Geographical Synonyms
While the term 'frankfurter' comes from the name of a city in Germany, what synonym comes from a city in Austria?
wiener (wienerwurst)
2999. Specter Stories
Literary historians say the first important ghost story by an American author was what work by Washington Irving?
The Legend of Sleepy Hollow
3000. Understated Openings
This is the first line of what science fiction tale? Far out in the uncharted backwaters of the unfashionable end of the Western Spiral arm of the Galaxy lies a small unregarded yellow sun.
The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy
3001. Fables
This is the first sentence of what beast fable? Mr. Jones, of the Manor Farm, had locked the hen-houses for the night, but was too drunk to remember to shut the popholes.
Animal Farm
3002. African Nationalities
What is the nationality of most people living in Cape Town and Pretoria?
South African
3003.
A triangle has a height of 22 feet and a base of 9 feet. What is its area?
99 square feet
3004. Pronouns
What is the case of the pronoun just before the gerund in this sentence? I truly resented his criticizing the technique I used to plant the prize roses.
possessive
3005. Archaeology
What civilization built fabulous and enduring architectural wonders at sites such as Tikal, Uxmal, and Chichen Itza?
Maya
3006. Refrains
What is the first of the two phrases in the refrain of the various verses of 'The Star-Spangled Banner'?
O'er the land of the free
3007. Rhode Islanders
Roger Williams encouraged what kind of toleration?
religious toleration
3008. Density
Water is most dense at what Celsius temperature?
4 degrees C
3009.
What work by Robert Louis Stevenson begins with this? I will begin the story of my adventures with a certain morning early in the month of June, the year of grace 1751, when I took the key for the last time out of the door of my father's house.
Kidnapped
3010. Geography
These are names of what? Robinson Peters Molleweide Mercator azimuthal homolosine sinusoidal
map projections
3011. Chemical Compounds
What common chemical compound consists of 3 atoms of oxygen and 2 atoms of iron?
rust (iron oxide)
3012. Debt
What adjective indicates debt without collateral, such as credit card debt?
unsecured
3013. Landforms
These are two categories of what? fringing barrier
reefs
3014. Journeys
Whose legendary journey in 1775 was initiated by a signal from the Old North Church in Boston?
Paul Revere's
3015. Energy
In the 1960s, the largest oil reserve north of the Mexican border was discovered in a region of Alaska called the North what?
Slope
3016. Legends
What was devised by King Arthur to preempt rivalry among members of his entourage for a seat at the hall table?
Round Table
3017. Organs
What organ is an exhaust pipe for the lungs?
trachea (windpipe)
3018. Eponyms
The bayonet was named after what French town?
Bayonne
3019. Political Affiliations
What is the name for a member of the conservative party in Great Britain or Canada?
Tory
3020. Colors
Purple is a binary color composed of what two hues?
blue and red
3021. Distance Problems
A bike travels for 10 minutes at an average speed of 5.5 meters per second. In meters, how far does it go?
3300
3022. Decimal Operations
Complete these operations. 1/2 x (4.16 - .03)
2.065
3023. Center of Mass
Name any object for which none of its mass is located at its center of mass.
hoop, ring, empty box, inflated balloon, etc.
3024. Preamble Vocabulary
What verb in the preamble of the U.S. Constitution means decree or enact?
ordain
3025. Organizational Lingo
What name for a piece of furniture may also refer to the presiding officer in a meeting?
chair
3026. Military Training
Overlooking the Hudson River and established in 1778, what is the oldest continuously operating army post in the United States?
West Point
3027. Emperors
What fourth-century Roman emperor issued the Edict of Milan outlawing the persecution of Christians and founded the future capital of the Byzantine Empire?
Constantine
3028. Assassinations
In what state did James Earl Ray kill Martin Luther King?
Tennessee
3029. Literary Techniques
What literary technique is illustrated by these phrases? liquid gas old news open secret definite maybe
oxymoron
3030. Pronouns
What are the relative pronouns in this line? Anyone who can handle a needle convincingly can make us see a thread which is not there.
who, which
3031. Bays
The northeastern arm of the Indian Ocean is what enormous bay?
Bay of Bengal
3032. Pirates
Famous Caribbean pirates include Bartholomew Roberts, Charles Vane, Blackbeard, Jean Fleury, and Henry who?
Morgan (or Avery or Jennings)
3033. American Flags
The flag of what state includes the image of a bear and a star?
California
3034. Island Mines
In prehistoric times, great amounts of what metal were mined from what is now Isle Royale in Lake Superior?
copper
3035. Sayings
This line from Shakespeare's 'Henry VIII' is reminiscent of what modern saying? No man's pie is freed from his ambitious finger.
have a finger in every pie
3036. War
The last Americans were evacuated from the American embassy rooftop in what South Vietnamese city at the end of the Vietnam War?
Saigon (Ho Chi Minh City)
3037. The Constitution
What amendment prohibits Judge Bean from issuing a sentence requiring a felon to be hung by his ankles from a flagpole and rubbed with poison ivy while listening to an endless tape of Chipmunk songs?
8th amendment
3038. Gold Math
How many grams of gold are in a 15-gram piece of jewelry that is labeled as 18 karat gold?
11.25
3039. Egyptian History
Name the leader who preceded Hosni Mubarak as president of Egypt.
Anwar Sadat
3040. Emerson
According to Ralph Waldo Emerson, one must be a nonconformist to be a ...
man
3041. Constellations
What constellation lies partly between Ursa Major and Ursa Minor?
Draco
3042. Deserts
Name the desert in which all or part of these countries are located. Yemen, Jordan, Oman, Iraq, Kuwait, Qatar
Arabian Desert
3043. Nonpartisan Organizations
Members of the Anti-Saloon League were especially supportive of which constitutional amendment?
18th Amendment
3044. Vapors
What commonly occurs when a vapor is cooled to its dew point?
condensation
3045. Air Masses
Maritime air masses form over ...
water (oceans)
3046. Infections
What skin disorder is characterized by scaling and peeling between the toes and redness, tiny blisters, and itching along the sides and soles of the feet?
athlete's foot
3047. Straits
What strait now exists where once a land bridge connected Siberia and Alaska?
Bering Strait
3048. 1
Water boils at the lowest temperature at the top of what mountain in the United States?
Mt. McKinley (Denali)
3049. Acid Rain
Which Canadian province adjacent to the United States is least affected by acid rain?
British Columbia
3050. Science History
Ernest Rutherford shot alpha particles at a thin gold foil and unexpectedly found that some bounced backward. He concluded that there was a small dense body in an atom capable of deflecting fast-moving particles. What did he call this body?
nucleus
3051. Qualifications
If Salvatore Corleone will be old enough in two years to run for the U.S. House of Representatives, how old is he now?
23
3052. Electrical Circuits
In what kind of electric circuit are components arranged to provide a single conducting path for current?
series circuit
3053. Beverages
Coffee became more popular than tea in the American colonies only after what event in 1773 made it a patriotic duty not to drink English tea?
Boston Tea Party
3054. Outdoor Perils
Abnormally low body temperature due to prolonged exposure to cold is called what?
hypothermia
3055. Energy
What type of energy is any energy that is not kinetic energy?
potential energy
3056. Epigram Parodies
What is the original epigram that Will Rogers parodied with this statement? A fool and his money are soon elected.
A fool and his money are soon parted.
3057. Temperature
Ethyl alcohol melts at -114 degrees C. What is the Fahrenheit equivalent of this temperature?
-173 degrees F
3058. Plant Anatomy
Since plants have no skeletal system, they depend on what thick structure around each cell membrane for mechanical support?
cell wall
3059. Anatomy
A neuromuscular junction is the space between what two types of cells?
nerve, muscle
3060. Biblical Paraphrasing
What 19th-century political candidate paraphrased these words from the Bible in one of his famous speeches? Every kingdom divided against itself is brought to desolation; and every city or house divided against itself shall not stand.
Abraham Lincoln
3061. Engines
How many strokes are in an engine invented by Nikolaus Otto?
four
3062. Alabama History
Statehood for Alabama was delayed partly because it lacked a coastline. This was rectified in 1814 when Andrew Jackson captured what town on the Gulf Coast?
Mobile
3063. Missionaries
Marquette, Michigan, was named in honor of the French missionary, Jacques Marquette, who explored the region. What other missionary accompanied him?
Louis Jolliet
3064. New Zealand Geology
The rugged features of New Zealand are caused by uplift resulting from the collision of the Indo-Australian plate with what other plate?
Pacific Plate
3065. Art Geology
What metamorphosed form of limestone is commonly used in architecture and sculpture?
marble
3066. Weathering
Name the sommon material resulting from the combination of the products of weathering and decaying organic material.
soil
3067. First Shots
The American Civil War began when Pierre Beauregard's guns opened fire on Major Robert Anderson's troops in what fort?
Fort Sumter
3068. Plays
Who is the teacher in William Gibson's play, 'The Miracle Worker'?
Anne Sullivan
3069. Colonial Clashes
During the colonization of New Zealand, European settlers often clashed with what group of native inhabitants?
Maoris
3070. Poetry Sequences
What comes next in this sequence of poetry stanzas? septet, sextain, quintain, quatrain, tercet ...
couplet
3071. Ceramics
In pottery, making a pot from a piece of clay on a potter's wheel is called ...
throwing
3072. Back Phrases
To 'back up' means to support and to be 'laid on one's back' means to be sick. What phrase containing 'back' means to assume a defensive position against insurmountable odds?
back against the wall
3073. Novels
In what story do circumstances require young Robert Peck to help kill his pet pig, Pinky, and then deal with the death of his own father?
A Day No Pigs Would Die
3074. Patriotic Poetry
What poem about a Revolutionary War leader by William Cullen Bryant begins with this? Our band is few, but true and tried, Our leader frank and bold; The British soldier trembles When Marion's name is told.
Song of Marion's Men
3075. Electricity
A current of 60 amperes flows through a resistance of 4 ohms. What is the voltage forcing the current through the resistance?
240 (volts)
3076. Punned Nursery Rhymes
What Scandinavian country completes this pun based on a children's rhyme? Little Miss Muffet liked neither curds ...
Norway
3077. Finding Fugitives
What kind of hunter captures fugitives for whom a monetary reward is offered?
bounty hunter
3078. Rock Applications
The Taj Mahal is made of marble while the Great Sphinx was carved from what kind of rock?
sandstone
3079. Mountain Ranges
Name the largest body of water visible from a peak in the Atlas Mountains.
Atlantic Ocean
3080. Disorders
Atrial flutter is an abnormal rhythm of what organ?
heart
3081. Participles
What are the two acceptable past participles of the verb 'burn'?
burned, burnt
3082. Energy in a Can
All the popular energy drinks contain some form of sugar and what common alkaloid?
caffeine
3083. Sculpture
What metal is most often used for cast metal sculptures?
bronze
3084. Art
What is the term for an artist's workroom or a place where art is taught?
studio
3085. Continental Borders
What body of water is contiguous with these African countries? Namibia Senegal Liberia Cameroon
Atlantic Ocean
3086. Chemical Tests
What kind of chemical test will immediately and conclusively tell you if a solution is or is not an acid?
litmus test
3087. Literary Quotes
Who wrote this? All animals are equal but some animals are more equal than others.
George Orwell
3088. Imperialism
What European country captured Ceuta in 1415 and turned Macao over the Chinese in 1999?
Portugal
3089. Spanish Neighbors
Name the smallest country adjacent to Spain.
Andorra
3090. Injuries
The condition characterized by pain over the lateral epichondyle of the humerus radiating to the outer side of the arm and forearm is commonly called ...
tennis elbow
3091. Fictional Places
These are located in what fictional land? Mount Pire Lantern Waste Shuddering Wood Stormness Head Fords of Beruna Deathwater Island Flaming Mountain of Lagour
Narnia
3092. Bird Wings
Name the three main bones in a bird's wing.
humerus, radius, ulna
3093. Bones
What is the anatomical name for the kneecap?
patella
3094. Moons
Phoebe and Janus are moons of what planet?
Saturn
3095. Reform Poetry
This verse by Sarah Cleghorn, written in the early 20th century, is about what practice since abolished by legislation? The golf links lie so near the mill That almost every day The laboring children can look out And see the men at play.
child labor
3096. Zoology
The three types of symmetry exhibited by creatures in the animal kingdom include bilateral, radial, and what other?
spherical symmetry
3097. Courts
U.S. district courts exist on two island territories in the West Indies. Name them.
Puerto Rico, Virgin Islands
3098. Ancient Literature
What ancient Greek wrote these tales? The Frog and the Ox The Bald Man and the Fly The Dog and the Shadow
Aesop
3099. Land Forms
Panama connects North and South America. Any such strip of land connecting two large land masses is called an ...
isthmus
3100. Art
What art form may described in these ways? -an art that takes away superfluous material -mud pies which endure -not the mere cutting of the form of anything in stone but the cutting of the effect of it
sculpture
3101. Organs
The pericardium is a layer of tissue that surrounds what organ?
heart
3102. National Movements
What movement initiated around the end of the 19th century had the goal of returning exiled Jewish people to their homeland?
Zionism
3103. Movie Trivia
This is from what movie? We're all very different people. We're not Watusi. We're not Spartans. We're Americans, with a capital 'A.' You know what that means? Do ya? That means that our forefathers were kicked out of every decent country in the world. We are the wretched refuse. We're the underdog.
Stripes
3104. Light
Light travels about 1 foot in a nanosecond. This period equals what fraction of a second?
1 billionth
3105. Maxims
According to this motto of the British Association of Anaesthetists, safety is found in what? In somno securitas.
sleep
3106. African Capitals
Lusaka is the capital of what African nation?
Zambia
3107. Novels
Who is the central character in Mary Stewart's novel, 'The Crystal Cave'?
Merlin
3108. Criminals
Al Capone was sentenced to eleven years in prison after being convicted of what crime?
tax evasion
3109. Historical Practices
What is the term for the training and adapting of animals to live in a human environment and to be of use to people?
domestication (domesticate)
3110. Resettlement Analogies
Leaving a region is to emigration as entering a region is to what?
immigration
3111. Shared Names
What name is shared by a battle site in Cuba and the capital of Puerto Rico?
San Juan
3112. Asian Annexes
In 1910, what peninsular country was annexed by Japan?
Korea
3113. Sales Techniques
Using the telephone, salesmen often approach people who are not expecting the contact. This is known as what kind of calling?
cold calling
3114. Oh, Beans!
Of Montezuma II, emperor of the Aztecs, it is said that he only took one beverage with his meals, and that he often consumed some 60 portions per day. This beverage was made from beans from the pods of what tree that grows only within 20 degrees of the equator?
cacao (or cocoa)
3115. Anatomy
A scanning electron micrograph of tissue in what organ would show numerous alveoli?
lung tissue
3116. Planets
About what fraction of the Earth's size is Mercury?
1/2
3117. Science Fiction
Name the novel by H.G. Wells in which a stranger with a completely bandaged head arrives at Bramblehurst railway station.
The Invisible Man
3118.
The headquarters of these major organizations are in what U.S. city? United Auto Workers General Motors Chrysler Ford
Detroit
3119. The Russian Revolution
The name of what party completes this line by a leading Menshevik in 1917? There has been no transfer of power to the Soviets, but a seizure of power by one party, the ...
Bolsheviks
3120. Instruments
What modern brass instrument with its tube bent into a circular form evolved from the hunting horn of the 17th century?
French horn
3121. International Competition
While the U.S. and the Soviet Union were already deeply involved in the nuclear arms race, the success of the Sputnik I project initiated what other race between the two superpowers?
space race
3122. Horse Evolution
On what continent did the eohippus first develop?
North America
3123. Oceanographic Etymology
What name for regions of the Atlantic, Pacific Ocean, and Indian oceans where the prevailing winds are especially calm came from an Old English word meaning 'dull' or 'foolish'?
doldrums
3124. European Ages
The Victorian Age flourished during which century?
19th
3125. U
Name two of the four states contiguous to the Canadian border admitted to the Union during 1889-1890.
WA, ID, MT, ND
3126. Cellulose
Plant cellulose is an essential element in the diet even though it provides no nutrients. Nutritionists call this substance ...
fiber (bulk, roughage)
3127. Imperialism
During the 1760s, which European country was unquestionably the greatest colonial power?
England
3128. Protests
'Disinvestment' is a form of what kind of economic protest?
boycott
3129. Technology
Who in 1839 successfully made rubber non-sticky and solid at high temperatures?
Charles Goodyear (Nat Hayward)
3130. Work Problems
Bart can build a doghouse in 2 hours while Boris needs 3 hours to do the same job. How long would it take both of them working together to build one?
1 1/5 hour (or 1 hr 12 min)
3131. Native American Quotes
What Indian chief said this? lam tired of fighting. Our chiefs are killed. The old men are all dead. The little children are freezing to death. From where the sun now stands, I will fight no more forever.
Chief Joseph
3132. Lost Ships
All six members of the crew of what boat are lost in Sebastian Junger's book, 'The Perfect Storm'?
Andrea Gail
3133. Anthropology
What is the term for the movement by a large group of people from one region to settle in another?
migration
3134. Symbols
What symbol of the American Revolution was first cast by the London firm of Lester and Pack and later recast twice by two Philadelphia workmen named John Pass and John Stow?
Liberty Bell
3135. Ancient Greece
In ancient Athens, unpopular citizens could be banished for up to ten years without loss of property or citizenship. Votes were cast by writing on potsherds called ostraka. Such temporary banishment was called what?
ostracism
3136. Novels
What novel set in 1906 in Georgia opens with Rucker Blakeslee announcing that he is to marry one of his employees who is years younger, even though his wife died just a few weeks before?
Cold Sassy Tree
3137.
A form of what element is usually the fuel of nuclear power plants?
uranium
3138. Earthquakes
These are locations of earthquakes that occurred along what fault system? Fort Tejon, Hayward, Imperial Valley, Kern County, San Fernando Valley, Northridge
San Andreas
3139. Taxation
Complete this line used by James Otis in Boston in 1765. Taxation without representation is ...
tyranny
3140. Legal Concepts
In presenting a point for the defense of her client, lawyer Lorraine referred to several previous decisions which she said should be used as standards in this case. Such relevant prior legal decisions are called ...
precedents
3141. Chemistry History
What French chemist of the 19th century founded the science of microbiology and discovered that contagious diseases are transmitted by germs?
Louis Pasteur
3142. Work
While holding a barbell above your head, how much work against a resistive force are you doing?
none
3143. Body Systems
A cutaneous condition is any medical condition that affects what body system?
integumentary system
3144. Injuries
What kind of injury occurs when muscle fibers tear as a result of overstretching?
strain (muscle strain, pulled muscle)
3145. Tissues
What kind of tissue mainly comprises the epiglottis?
cartilage
3146. Taking the Blame
What noun related to a hollow-horned, bearded ruminant indicates a person who gets the blame for someone else's mistakes?
scapegoat
3147. Harbors
The chief port of Algeria is ...
Algiers
3148. 1
This clipping from 1938 is about what creature? Scientists are trying to make sense of a fish trawled up from the ocean depths off South Africa. The bizarre creature has been called a living fossil because it was thought to be extinct 70 million years ago.
coelacanth
3149. Ocean Erosion
Beach property and harbors may be protected from direct erosive action of waves through construction of
breakwaters
3150. 4
Norsemen called Danes were from which Scandinavian country?
Denmark
3151. Geology
Cross-bedding is found most often in what type of sedimentary rock?
sandstone
3152. Diseases
The three main diseases associated with smoking cigarettes are lung cancer, heart disease, and what other?
emphysema
3153. Heroes
In the western novel, what is the nickname of the character who says this? When you call me that, smile.
the Virginian
3154. Seas
The Caucasus Mountains are adjacent to what enormous saltwater lake?
Caspian Sea
3155. Inscriptions
On a marker on what hill in Tombstone, Arizona is this inscription found? HERE LIES LESTER MOORE FOUR SLUGS FROM A 44 NO LES NO MORE
Boot Hill
3156. History of Flight
This device invented in Spain is mistaken for an early helicopter, but the rotating blades holding it aloft are freewheeling and driven only by the forward thrust of the vehicle provided by a conventional propeller. Name this flying machine.
autogiro
3157. American Civilizations
Pre-Columbian history of the Americas ended in what century?
1400s (15th century)
3158. Rivers
Which river pours more water back into the ocean than any other?
Amazon
3159. Fantasies
Name the fantasy by Yann Martel about a young Indian boy adrift in a lifeboat with an orangutan, zebra, hyena, and tiger.
Life of Pi
3160. Symphonies
What is the principal percussion instrument of the symphony orchestra?
kettledrum
3161. Geologic Math
The distance between the continental shelves of western Norway and eastern Greenland is about 1300 km. If these land masses separated 65 million years ago, what is the average velocity of either plate in centimeters per year?
1 cm/year
3162. Governmental Bodies
The non-elected house of Parliament in the United Kingdom is the ...
House of Lords
3163. Seas
What sea is to the northeast of Australia?
Coral Sea
3164. Industries
What is the three-syllable name for the industry which encompasses a worldwide complex of manufacturers that produce airplanes, helicopters, military aircraft, missiles, rockets, spacecraft, and satellites?
aerospace
3165. The Earth
What fundamental force is responsible for Earth's spherical shape?
gravity
3166. Letters
Who wrote this note in 1963? Dear Mr. President: Thank you for walking yesterday behind Jack. You did not have to take such a risk. Thank you for your letters to my children. And most of all, thank you for the way you have always treated me - you and Lady Bird - when Jack was alive.
Jacqueline Kennedy
3167. Sediment
What is the name for the sorted or semi-sorted sediment in the bed of a stream or on its floodplain or delta?
alluvium
3168. Gunfights
In the 1880s, the notorious Clantons were gunned down by Doc Holliday and three brothers with what surname?
Earp
3169. Nonce Words
Form a nonce word by adding a suffix meaning 'disease' to indicate the problem someone has who exaggerates too much and too often?
exaggeritis (overstatitis, hyperbolitis)
3170. Drainages
What river drains Lake Eyre in Australia?
none
3171. Treaties
The Treaty of Ghent signed in 1814 ended the war between the U.S. and what other country?
England (Great Britain, United Kingdom)
3172. Invertebrate Zoology
What is the common collective name for annelids that feed on organic matter in soil?
worms
3173. Solutions
Who provided a solution to this problem? The only cotton that would grow in the area was a green seed variety. Ten hours of hand work was needed to separate one pound of lint from three pounds of the small tough seeds.
Eli Whitney
3174. 2
Ralphie has a dominant gene which causes his skin to produce an uneven pattern of protective melanin pigment when exposed to the Sun. Name this skin condition.
freckles
3175. The Caribbean
What is the first country due west of Puerto Rico?
Dominican Republic
3176. Biological Talk
The verb 'spawn' means to deposit what?
eggs
3177. Pepper Permutations
You have five quart jars of jalapeno peppers. In how many ways can these jars be arranged on a shelf?
120
3178. Marine Biology Vocabulary
A life form that is euryhaline has a wide tolerance for what?
salinity (salt water)
3179. Physiology
Involuntary responses such as blushing, sneezing, shivering, and vomiting are called ...
reflexes
3180. Battles
What decisive battle of the American Revolution occurred not far from the site of the early settlement of Jamestown?
Yorktown
3181. Crowbar Mechanics
To pull a spike from a beam, you apply a force of 50 newtons to a crowbar which then applies a force of 650 newtons to the spike. What is the mechanical
advantage of the crowbar?
3182. Biological Stages
What is the collective name for nymphs, grubs, tadpoles, maggots, wrigglers, and caterpillars?
larva (larvae)
3183. History of Biology
He believed that species never changed. Paradoxically, he worked out a hierarchical scheme of classification based on the idea that species show different degrees of mutual relatedness. Who was this Swedish botanist?
Karl (Carolus) Linnaeus
3184. Gears
In a device with two gears, if the diameter of one is twice that of the other, what is the gear ratio?
2 to 1 (or 1 to 2)
3185. Logarithms
Evaluate log base 4 of 32.
3186. Ballroom Dancing
Identify the Cuban dance in which participants form a line doing three steps forward and then a kick.
conga
3187. American Painters
Anna Mary Robertson was 26 when she married Thomas Moses, with whom she farmed until, in her 70s, she took up painting and became widely known by what nickname?
Grandma Moses
3188. Renewable Energy
Much of New Zealand's electricity is generated from what two renewable resources?
hydropower, wind
3189. Grammatical Mood
What grammatical mood is illustrated by the first line of the Gettysburg Address?
indicative
3190. Death
A body may become stiff due to muscle contraction after death. Name this condition.
rigor mortis
3191. Points
A set of points whose location is specified by an equation is a ...
locus
3192. Islands
What islands in the eastern Atlantic have the same name as a small bird?
Canary Islands
3193. Constitutional Amendments
A person is on trial for kidnapping little Annie Jones. What amendment would prohibit the jury deciding this case from being all members of Annie's family?
seventh amendment
3194. Chemical Symbols
What is the chemical symbol for the element in
diamonds?
3195. Regions
Name the vast region comprising most of northern Asia and the central and eastern portions of the Russian Federation.
Siberia
3196.
Although captured by allies of the British, tried for witchcraft, and burned at the stake, she was later named by the Catholic church as a saint. Who was she?
Joan of Arc
3197. Divides
The highest point on the continental divide of what country is at 2228 meters on top of Mt. Kosciusko?
Australia
3198. European Ages
The Middle Ages were marked by the spread and collapse of what political and economic system?
feudalism
3199. Religion
In Catholicism, venial sins are less serious than what other category of transgressions?
mortal sins
3200. Mutations
What is the term for a mutated organism carrying a mutated gene?
mutant
3201. Fantasy Series
'City of Bones,' 'City of Ashes,' 'City of Glass,' City of Fallen Angels, 'City of Lost Souls,' and 'City of Heavenly Fire' are the books in a series of fantasy novels by Cassandra Clare. Complete the title of the series. The Mortal ...
Instruments
3202. Physical Properties
You have an unknown glob of material and find that no matter how much you squeeze it or stretch it or compress it, it returns to its original shape. This illustrates what physical property?
elasticity
3203. Mining
Carbonaceous deposits of what stratified rock of hardened and mineralized clay periodically receive considerable attention in the West as a source of oil?
oil shale
3204. Earth's Orbit
The aphelion or that point in the Earth's orbit when it is farthest from the Sun occurs during what month?
July
3205. Angiosperms
The structure in angiosperms that bears the organs for sexual reproduction is the ...
flower
3206. Lyrics
These words are from the second verse of what song? On the shore, dimly seen through the mists of the deep. / Where the foe's haughty host in dread silence reposes, What is that which the breeze, o'er the towering steep, / As it fitfully blows, half conceals, half discloses.
The Star-Spangled Banner
3207. Carthaginians
In 218 B.C., what commander led his army of ninety thousand soldiers and forty elephants from Spain, across Gaul, and over Europe's highest mountain range to attack Rome?
Hannibal
3208.
What word in the solemn promise at the end of the Declaration of Independence is also the name for one of the U.S. capital cities?
Providence
3209. Settings
These books are set in what country? Girl with a Pearl Earring The Hiding Place The Upstairs Room The Black Tulip I Am Rembrandt's Daughter
Netherlands (Holland)
3210. Anatomical Malapropisms
Correct the idiom used in this sentence. That coach stands head and heels above all his peers.
head and shoulders
3211. Physiology
What division of the nervous system supplies stimulation to the involuntary muscles and the glands?
autonomic nervous system
3212. European Capitals
What is the southernmost Scandinavian capital city?
Copenhagen
3213. Poetry
What does John Keats mean by 'Fancy' in this verse? Then let winged Fancy wander Through the thought still spread beyond her. Open wide the mind's cage-door, She'll dart forth, and cloudward soar.
imagination (whim, wishful thinking)
3214. Horses
The walk, trot, canter, and gallop are varieties of the rhythmic movement of a horse's feet and legs called its what?
gait
3215. Novels
In what book does Sarah Wheaton leave her home in Maine in response to a newspaper ad placed by a poor farmer named Jacob Witting hoping to secure a wife for himself and a mother for his children?
Sarah Plain and Tall
3216. Deficiency Diseases
Little Isaac Mushnick has bowed legs. His wrists and ankles are enlarged. His head is bulky and square. His pelvis is deformed and he has bad teeth. These are symptoms of what disease resulting from inadequate vitamin D?
rickets
3217. Robotics
Who developed the rules stating that robots may not injure a human being and that robots must obey human commands except when the orders conflict with the first rule?
Isaac Asimov
3218. Naturalists
He spent five weeks floating from Hood Island to Chatham Island to Charles Island to Albemarle and Narborough Islands to Bindloe Island to James Island to Abingdon Island. Who was this naturalist aboard the Beagle?
Charles Darwin
3219. Supreme Court Traditions
Just by virtue of their location on the bench during sessions of the Supreme Court, what can you say about the two justices sitting at the far left and far right?
They have the least seniority.
3220. 5
If one gear has 60 teeth and another has 20, what is the gear ratio when these two gears are connected together?
3 to 1 (or 1 to 3)
3221. State Airspace
You fly across the airspace of what state by going east from the capital of Quebec to the capital of New Brunswick?
Maine
3222. Acidic Juices
Juices on grocery store shelves fall into three categories on the pH scale, alkaline, neutral, or acidic. What number corresponds to a juice with a neutral
pH?
3223. Injuries
What type of superficial wound usually results when exposed skin contacts a rough surface, causing a grinding or rubbing away of the upper part of the epidermis?
abrasion
3224. European Nations
In 1949, the Federal Republic of Germany was formally established as an independent nation. What was the popular name of this country?
West Germany
3225. Articles
Grammatically speaking, what category of article must be used for a particular object or class of objects?
definite article
3226. Grammatical Goofs
What words are misplaced in this line? A circuit court has awarded $3 million to a retired Bethlehem Steel worker who was exposed to asbestos and his wife.
and his wife
3227. Biology
What is the antecedent in this passage? After being warmed, humidified, and filtered, it passes to the pharynx, then to the larynx, to the trachea, to the two bronchi, and then to the bronchioles.
air
3228. Pilgrimages
What Saudi Arabian city is the destination for millions of Moslem pilgrims each year?
Mecca
3229. Earnings
Mort earns $5.13 per hour at the centipede farm. During one week he worked 5.3 hours, 8 hours, 5.7 hours, 4.2 hours, and 5.8 hours. How much was earned that week?
$148.77
3230. Sentences
What is the simple subject in this line? Down the crooked mountain trail came a furry old yeti wearing a Mickey Mouse watch and swim fins.
yeti
3231. Jupiter
Jupiter's enduring Great Red Spot is somewhat similar to what enormous, temporary, meteorological phenomena on Earth?
hurricanes
3232. Employment
One day, the government announced that, as part of an austerity program, it would not hire any additional border guards. What is the term for such a measure?
freeze
3233. Reptilian Relatives
What is the land-dwelling relative of the sea turtle?
tortoise
3234. Monuments
These words refer to what monument? From her beacon-hand Glows world-wide welcome. Her mild eyes command The air-bridged harbor that twin cities frame.
Statue of Liberty
3235. Warfare Conduct
Name the agreement first formulated in Switzerland in 1864 which established rules for wartime treatment of prisoners and of the sick or wounded.
Geneva Convention
3236. German
In German, the terms 'Somer' and 'Herbst' are names for two of the four what?
seasons
3237. Traditions
To what city to Muslims travel to fulfill their Fifth Pillar of Faith?
Mecca
3238. Capitols
On the grounds of which state capitol are there statues of Abraham Lincoln and Stephen Douglas?
Illinois
3239. Cliffs
The Palisades are cliffs along the west bank of the Hudson River in what state?
New Jersey
3240. Fictional Viruses
'The Pulse' is a virus that lies dormant inside mobile phones in what Stephen King story?
Cell
3241. Gems
Name the unit of weight for precious gems.
carat
3242. Codes
With what code of conduct are these names associated? El Cid Miles Courtenay D'Artagnan Ivanhoe Don Quixote Sir Galahad
chivalry
3243. Tragedies
During an attempted assassination in early 2011, 19 people were shot in a supermarket parking lot, including a federal judge and a Congresswoman from what state?
Arizona
3244. Religious Beliefs
What 'ism' practiced by ancient Egyptians, Canaanites, Greeks, Romans, Scandinavians, and Mayas involves the worship of multiple gods?
polytheism
3245. Astronomical Events
What occurs when a full Moon crosses the plane of the Earth's umbra?
lunar eclipse
3246. Bottles
To the nearest cubic centimeter, what is the volume of the container you need to hold 5 kilograms of mercury, given that its density is 13.6 grams per cubic centimeter?
368
3247. Sentence Types
Classify this statement by Samuel Johnson according to its structure. Life affords no higher pleasure than that of surmounting difficulties, passing from one step of success to another, forming new wishes and seeing them gratified.
simple sentence
3248. Poe
This is from what Edgar Allan Poe story? Pluto - this was the cat's name - was my favorite pet and playmate. I alone fed him, and he attended me wherever I went about the house. It was even with difficulty that I could prevent him from following me through the streets.
The Black Cat
3249. Calendars
Given that 1975, 1987, and 1999 were all the Year of the Rabbit on the Chinese calendar, what will be the next Year of the Rabbit?
2011
3250. Proverbs
How does this proverb usually begin? Desist from enumerating your fowl prior to their emergence from the prenatal ovoid structure.
Don't count your chickens ...
3251. Short Stories
What story begins with these words? Day had broken cold and gray when the man turned aside from the main Yukon trail and climbed the high earth-bank, where a dim trail led eastward through the fat spruce.
To Build a Fire
3252. Algebraic Operations
What is the sum of 2(y-3) and 3y?
by -
3253. Legal Maneuvers
How did President Nixon avoid impeachment on charges of presidential involvement in the Watergate scandal?
He resigned.
3254. Seas
What sea lies between Ireland and England?
Irish Sea
3255. Calories
How much heat, in calories, is needed to raise 10 grams of water from 10 to 25 degrees Celsius?
150
3256. International Ground Rules
What enduring policy set forth by the fifth U.S. president established that the New World and the Old World were to remain distinctly separate spheres of influence and that the Western Hemisphere was not to be further colonized by European countries?
Monroe Doctrine
3257. Musicals
One of the two central characters in 'The Music Man' is a traveling salesman. What is the occupation of the other?
librarian
3258. Squares
An integer is a perfect square if it is the square of an
integer
3259. Logic
What is the negation of this statement? Today is Friday.
Today is not Friday.
3260. Hurricanes
As a hurricane sweeps across the Caribbean and heads for the North American mainland, it will be preceded by a sudden rise in sea level of ten feet or more. This phenomenon is a ...
storm surge
3261. Mining
Chemist Herman Frasch developed a method for extracting what pale yellow nonmetallic element from deposits deep underground?
sulfur
3262. Poetic Misquotations
Correct the mistaken line in this poem. Poems are made by fools like me, But God can only make a tree.
But only God can make a tree.
3263. Holocaust Victims
Although she lived most of her life in the Netherlands, Anne Frank was born in what country?
Germany
3264. Novels
San Francisco is the setting for what novel about a Chinese immigrant father and son who build a flying machine?
Dragonwings
3265. Sedimentary Rock
Sandstone, mudstone, shale, and what other rock constitutes about 99 percent of all sedimentary rocks?
limestone
3266. Rainshadows
Parts of the desert in Nevada and northern Arizona are influenced by the rainshadow effect of what mountain range in eastern California?
Sierra Nevada
3267. Poetry
To what creatures does the pronoun refer in these words by Robert Browning? They fought the dogs, and killed the cats and bit the babies in the cradles, and ate the cheeses out of the vats, and licked the soup from the cook's own ladles.
rats
3268. Historians
Halicarnassus was a Greek city in Asia Minor. It was the birthplace of what great historian of antiquity?
Herodotus
3269. Allusions
For what word does the allusion stand in this quip by F.W. Dedering? Astrology is Taurus.
bull
3270. Poems
What is the nation mentioned in this excerpt? And yet, through the gloom and the light, The fate of a nation was riding that night. And the spark struck out by that steed in his flight Kindled the land into flame with its heat.
United States
3271. 5
In his testimony before the House in 2013, Gregory Hicks, former deputy chief of mission in Libya said, 'I was stunned. My jaw dropped and I was embarrassed.' He was referring to the U.S. administration's characterization of the attack on the American diplomatic mission in what city as a spontaneous reaction to an anti-Islam YouTube video?
Benghazi
3272. Color Blindness
Some of which of the two types of light-sensitive cells in the retina are dysfunctional in color-blind people?
cones
3273. Battles
Name the decisive air battle that prevented Germany from invading England in World War II.
Battle of Britain
3274. Orchestras
While a small orchestra may be called a chamber orchestra, what is a full-sized orchestra called?
symphony (philharmonic) orchestra
3275. Earth Layers
Soils are divided into horizons. The O horizon is humus, the A horizon is topsoil, the B horizon is subsoil, the C horizon is the regolith, and the R horizon is what?
bedrock
3276. Historical Adjectives
What adjective is used by historians to indicate that an artifact belongs to a period prior to that of recorded history?
prehistoric
3277. Coin Problems
In a jar, there is $1.17 in pennies, nickels, and dimes. There are 25 coins in all. If there are twice as many
nickels as pennies, how many nickels are in the jar?
3278. Matter
What adjective indicates materials that break without significant pressure and absorb little energy before fracturing?
brittle
3279. Ecology
On Michigan's Isle Royale national park, there is just one predator, the wolf. And there is just one prey. Name it.
moose
3280. Rejected Titles
What novel was not but could have been given this name? One Hundred Percent Placid in the Occidental Combat Zone.
All Quiet on the Western Front
3281. Liquid Physics
What phenomenon is responsible for the shape of liquid droplets or soap bubbles?
surface tension
3282. Island Nations
Mauritius is an island country due east of what large African island?
Madagascar
3283.
What Greek writer is responsible for these sayings? -Appearances are often deceiving. -Flatterers are not to be trusted. -An old trick may be played once too often. -Any fool can despise what he cannot get. -One good turn deserves another.
Aesop
3284. Lyrics
This is from a song in what musical? When the moon is in the Seventh House and Jupiter aligns with Mars Then peace will guide the planets And love will steer the stars.
Hair
3285. Battles
The one sea battle of World War I which involved dreadnoughts was the battle of ...
Jutland
3286. Legumes
Legumes convert what gas to a necessary nutrient in the soil?
nitrogen
3287. Knighthood
What is the title of one who has been knighted?
sit
3288. Energy
Actors on a stage are known to become quite warm due to the stage lighting. What type of heat transfer is involved?
radiation
3289. Mountains
What mountain system traverses these countries? India Iran Afghanistan
Himalayas
3290. Artistic Surnames
'Buonarroti' is the last name of what famed artist?
Michelangelo
3291. Architecture
What term do architects use for elongated, cylindrical, upright supports?
columns
3292. Motion
What term in physical science describes the amount of inertia and motion an object has?
momentum
3293. Ireland
Who is the patron saint of Ireland?
St. Patrick
3294. Chemical Tests
You add Fehling's solution A and solution B to a test tube containing a mixture of apple and orange juice. When you heat the test tube, what color is produced?
orange
3295. Rodents
What South American semi-aquatic rodent somewhat resembles an enormously oversized guinea pig?
capybara
3296. Health Antonyms
What adjective that means a person is likely to catch a disease is the opposite of immune?
susceptible
3297. Square Root
What is y if the square root of Sy equals 10?
20
3298. Natural Phenomena
Anything that imparts a disturbance to the surrounding air is a source of what phenomenon as perceived by people?
sound
3299. Carnivores
It has white fur in the winter. Name this fox that lives in the frozen northlands of Canada, Greenland, and Siberia.
Arctic fox
3300. Plots
What is the phrase for that point in a plot when the protagonist's situation changes for the better or for the worse?
turning point
3301.
What predicate adjective completes this thought by Voltaire? It is dangerous to be right in matters on which the established authorities are ...
wrong
3302. 1
Somewhat resembling beavers, name the common semi-aquatic rodents weighing 2 to 5 pounds with webbed feet and scaly, roundish tails that make their homes in riverbank burrows.
muskrats
3303. Forestlands
Any extensive stand of trees that may be hundreds or even thousands of years old is called what kind of forest?
old-growth (virgin)
3304. Algorithms
What is calculated by multiplying 2 times the radius of a circle by 3.1416?
circumference
3305. Massachusetts Education
In 1826 in Millbury, Massachusetts, Josiah Holbrook organized a program of adult education courses that he called a lyceum named after whose school in ancient Athens?
Aristotle's
3306. The Solar System
This quote by a NASA scientist was in reference to what kind of heavenly object? This city-sized object is floating around in a vacuum. The only time it gets bothered is when the Sun cooks it a little or someone slams an 820-pound wakeup call at it at 23,000 mph.
comet
3307. Cities
This is the original name of what U.S. city? El Pueblo de Nuestra Senora la Reina de los Angeles de Porciuncula
Los Angeles
3308. Eastern European History
After declaring its independence in 1991, what former Yugoslav republic was quickly embroiled in a civil war between the Croat majority and the ethnic Serb irregulars backed by the Yugoslav army?
Croatia
3309. Attacks
Britain, France, and Israel attacked Egypt in 1956 to regain control of what waterway?
Suez Canal
3310. Physical Properties
You pull a sponge out of a bucket of water. What property of liquids causes the water to squirt out in all directions when you mash the sponge between your hands?
incompressibility
3311. Chile
What Chilean military leader and president directed a successful coup against his predecessor, Salvador Allende?
Augusto Pinochet
3312. Big Sleeps
For how many years did Rip van Winkle sleep?
20
3313. Quadratics
What are the two values of b in this equation?
2(b squared) + 12b + 10=0
3314. Homonyms
Spell the word meaning 'to survive' that is missing in this poem? Whether the weather be fine, / Whether the weather be not, / Whether the weather be cold, Whether the weather be hot, / We'll ---- the weather, / Whatever the weather, / Whether we like it or not.
weather
3315. Acids
What type of acids are compounds in which phosphoric acid is combined with carbohydrates and with bases derived from purine and pyrimidine?
nucleic acids
3316. Money Idioms
Reminiscent of bird reproduction, money you have saved up for some purpose is your ...
nest eqg
3317. Landforms
These are examples of what landform? Sinai Seward Malay Scandinavian
peninsula
3318. New World Colonies
The capital of the New Netherland colony was at the mouth of what river?
Hudson River
3319. Organic Chemistry
In 1878, the German physiologist Wilhelm Kuhne introduced what term for the complex organic substances whose catalytic reactions produce chemical changes in digestion?
enzyme
3320. Oceanography History
The research ship Challenger lowered a weighted hemp rope to a depth of five miles in an area south of Guam. Name the trench being probed.
Marianas Trench
3321. Famous Phone Calls
To whom was Alexander Graham Bell speaking when he made this initial telephone call? Come here. I want you.
Mr. Watson (Thomas Watson)
3322. Scientific Laws
According to Newton's third law of motion, what is a rope doing while you are pulling on it?
It is pulling back.
3323. 5
What kind of barometer contains metal that shrinks when air pressure rises and expands when air pressure falls?
aneroid barometer
3324. Ability Loss
The psychological impairment called agraphia indicates a loss of a pre-existing ability to do what?
write
3325. Geologic Processes
What is typically turned into stone through petrifaction?
wood (trees)
3326. Clauses
What is the main clause in this quip by George Bernard Shaw? A government which robs Peter to pay Paul can always depend on the support of Paul.
government can depend
3327. Propaganda
What propaganda technique is the candidate using who might say this? Mr. Guterberg is nothing more than a fascist, liberal, tree-hugging yuppie environmentalist.
name calling
3328. Elements
Transuranic elements are grouped into either the transactinide series or into what other series?
actinide series
3329. Heavenly Bodies
Ison was a heavenly body that until recently orbited the Sun about every 10,000 years. It passed close to the Sun in November of 2013. What kind of body was it?
comet
3330. Harsh Customs
This describes a custom of what people between the 7th and 11th centuries? The headsman's dead body was placed on a ship with his belongings for use in the next life, along with a slave girl. The ship was then set alight by a close relative.
Vikings (Norsemen)
3331. Scientific Speculation
This is from what work by Charles Darwin? As buds give rise by growth to fresh buds, and these, if vigorous, branch out and overtop on all sides many a feebler branch, so by generation I believe it has been with the great Tree of Life, which fills with its dead and broken branches the crust of the earth, and covers the surface with its ever branching and beautiful ramifications
The Origin of Species
3332. Landforms
What are these? Namib Gibson Kalahari Mojave Great Sandy
deserts
3333. Cubes
What is the surface area of a cube four feet on edge?
96 square feet
3334. Spelling Malapropisms
Had the correct word been used, how should the last word in this sentence be spelled? You always knew when he come in the room because of the smell of his strange colon.
cologne
3335. Court Talk
What term may indicate person being sued, the party responding to a civil complaint, or the person who has been accused of a crime?
defendant
3336. Simple Machines
What simple machine could be defined as a tilted surface?
inclined plane
3337. Memorials
The Vietnam Veterans Memorial is in what city?
Washington, D.C.
3338. Triangles
What category of triangles has all three angles different and each less than 90 degrees?
acute
3339. Aeronautical Abbreviations
The British and French collaborated in building the Concorde, an SST. For what does this abbreviation stand?
supersonic transport
3340. Foul Foul Foul!
What kind of foul is indicated by a basketball referee who forms a 'T' with his hands?
technical foul
3341. Significant Textbooks
Complete this title of the most famous text on parliamentary procedure. Robert's Rules of ...
Order
3342. Inaugural Speeches
What organization is missing in this quote from Lincoln's first inaugural address? If the policy of the government, upon vital questions affecting the whole people, is to be irrevocably fixed by decisions of the ----, the people will have ceased to be their own rulers, having to that extent practically resigned the government into the hands of that eminent tribunal.
Supreme Court
3343. Battle Poems
This is from a poem about what Civil War battle? So came one, when a signal gun awoke on the Southern side, / And Hunt's brigade with a cannonade to the challenge of Lee replied, / Like arrows sent from a bow well bent to the heart of a distant targe, / Virginia's hope rode down the slope with Pickett leading the charge!
Gettysburg
3344. Upbeat Characters
This is about what fictional female? The orphaned girl arrives in Beldingsville to live with her harsh maiden aunt. All soon feel her effect as she enlivens everyone with her cheerful and infectious optimism. The sad, the lonely, the sick, and the obnoxious all become enamoured of this girl's enthusiasm and zeal.
Pollyanna
3345. Old West Outlaws
The largest single robbery of the Union Pacific Railroad occurred in 1877 by a gang led by what famous outlaw who was killed by a Texas Ranger less than a year later?
Sam Bass
3346. Fortifications
Guns on Gibraltar control the entrance to what body of water?
Mediterranean Sea
3347. Venn Diagrams
In a Venn diagram, you see a small oval labeled 'Moogoos' inside a larger oval labeled 'mutants.' Express this diagram in words.
All Moogoos are mutants.
3348. Fruits
In 1805, what citrus fruit from Tangier in Morocco reached Europe for the first time?
tangerines
3349. Dangerous Sports
What event has the highest injury rate of any rodeo sport?
bull riding
3350. Algebraic Evaluation
Given that x = -1 and y = 3, evaluate (y+x)/(y-x).
1/2
3351. King Myths
What mythical king said this to Dionysus? Give me the power to turn all I touch into gold.
King Midas
3352. Authors
Who wrote this line? It swam crossways in the direction of the Nautilus with great speed, watching us with its enormous staring green eyes.
Jules Verne
3353. Years
These are some of the years in the 12-year calendar cycle of what country? -year of the rat -year of the ox -year of the tiger -year of the rabbit -year of the dragon
China
3354. Chiefs
Pontiac was an Ottawa Indian chief who organized tribes in the region of what lakes?
Great Lakes
3355. South America
The world's highest capital is at an altitude of 12,000 feet in what nation?
Bolivia
3356. Cowboys
On what continent do gauchos get their little dogies along?
South America
3357. Song Grammar
What is the first preposition used in 'The Star- Spangled Banner'?
by
3358. Art Materials
What substance used for carving consists mostly of dentin and cementum?
ivory
3359. Ocean Current
Dangerous narrow currents that flow at a right angle to the shoreline are called ...
rip currents
3360. Bodily Tissues
These are different varieties of what type of tissues? cardiac smooth striated
muscle
3361. Writing
Consider the words eventually, above all, meanwhile, in conclusion, in particular, and accordingly. When writers use such words to facilitate passing from one idea to another, what are they called?
transitions
3362. World War Il Battles
Whose was the most significant German death during the 1945 Battle of Berlin?
Adolf Hitler's
3363. Riddles
What was the original answer to the riddle that has more recently been given these answers? -a penguin at Miami beach -a zebra with chickenpox -a skunk with measles -a nun who fell into a vat of ketchup
a newspaper
3364. Technology
What is the abbreviation covering a broad spectrum of technologies that includes field such as speech recognition, robotics, problem solving, and pattern recognition?
Al (artificial intelligence)
3365. Lewis Carroll
In a story by Lewis Carroll, Leopold Stubbs was thrilled when he first saw the sign, 'Simon Lubkin. Dealer in Romancement.' But alas, there was a flaw in the sign. What did Mr. Lubkin actually sell?
Roman cement
3366. Diving
Divers working at high pressures deep under water usually breathe a mixture of oxygen and what inert gas since it is less soluble than nitrogen?
helium
3367. Terrorist Groups
Black September was a terrorist group founded in what Mideast country in 1970?
Jordan
3368. Congress
The Constitution requires Congress to assemble at least how many times in a decade?
ten times
3369. Quadrilaterals
What can be said abouit the opposite angles of an inscribed quadrilateral?
They are supplementary.
3370. Chemical Perils
For what does the abbreviation stand below? -DHMO is a major component in acid rain. -Prolonged exposure to solid DHMO may cause severe tissue damage. -Inhalation of liquid DHMO can cause death. -Gaseous DHMO can cause severe burns. -Metals exposed to DHMO become corroded.
dihydrogen monoxide (water)
3371. Professions Abroad
People in the U.S. who make law their profession are attorneys or lawyers. In Britain, members of this profession are ...
barristers (solicitors)
3372. Organic Chemistry
Name the hydrocarbons which contain only single covalent bonds.
alkanes
3373. Lines
What is the name for a line segment connecting two non-adjacent vertices in a polygon?
diagonal
3374. More Meaning
All the associations and emotions attached to a word are called ...
connotations
3375. Heteronyms
Spell the heteronym that, depending on its pronunciation, can mean 'an injury' or 'wrapped in a series of coils.'
wound
3376. Geology
Name the overall process by which rock at or near the Earth's surface disintegrates and decomposes.
weathering
3377. Fictional Characters
Who is the main character in a story by James Thurber in which these imaginary medical conditions are found? obstreosis streptothicosis coreopsis
Walter Mitty
3378. Seawater
What is more concentrated in seawater just below forming ice packs than it is in the open ocean?
salt
3379. Transportation
The Pacific Railway Act of 1862 authorized construction of a transcontinental railroad linking San Francisco, California, in the west to what Nebraska city in the east?
Omaha
3380. Functions
What is the maximum value for this function? f(x) = -3(x - 10)(x - 4)
27
3381. Word Categories
What is the term for the kind of words used in this example? Appouchen thee full dolourouse For sooth to sin from everich house.
archaisms (obsolete words)
3382. Word Squares
In a 3x3 palindrome square, the first row is GEL and the third row is LEG. What word is in the second row?
EYE
3383. Education History
What topic was notably absent from most textbooks from 1925 until the 1960s largely as a result of the John Scopes trial?
evolution
3384. Neologisms
In 1898, what term was introduced for the process by which plants synthesize carbohydrates from carbon dioxide, water, and inorganic salts using sunlight for energy and chlorophyll as a catalyst?
photosynthesis
3385. Technology Wars
At the time in 1957 when the U.S. had a 3-pound satellite almost ready for launch, the Soviet Union orbited what 185-pound satellite of their own?
Sputnik
3386. Peninsular States
On what peninsula in Mexico are the states of Campeche, Quintana Roo, and Yucatan located?
Yucatan Peninsula
3387. Polling
What kind of surveys are taken as voters leave polling places?
exit polls
3388. Physics Fundamentals
What is being done on an object if the object moves as a force is applied and the direction of the object's motion is the same as the direction of the force applied?
work
3389. Island Occupations
Kiska and Attu were temporarily occupied by the Japanese in World War II. They are islands in what island chain?
Aleutian Islands
3390. Ecology Rhymes
What term rhyming with 'crude' means to remove all vegetation and expose rock through erosion?
denude
3391. Novel Dialogue
This dialogue is from what famous French novel? Conseil: If that is the case, this dugong may well be the last of its race, and perhaps it would be better to spare it, in the interest of science. Ned Land: Perhaps it will be better to hunt it, in the interest of the kitchen.
Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea
3392. Seeds
For seeds to germinate, the temperature must be within certain favorable limits and there must be sufficient moisture available. What else must be present?
oxygen
3393. Peninsulas
What state shares a peninsula with Maryland?
Delaware (Virginia)
3394. Tails
This line is from a John Updike poem. The sky was dramatic with great straggling V's of geese streaming south, mare's-tails above them. What are mare's-tails?
(cirrus) clouds
3395. The Alamo
In 1835, Sam Houston ordered San Antonio abandoned but troops there at the Alamo under James Bowie and William Travis chose to remain. They were joined by others, notably the 'Tennessee boys' led by whom?
Davy Crockett
3396. 2
To give oneself up to law enforcement officials is to do what?
surrender (turn oneself in)
3397. Nitro!
What Swede discovered that when nitroglycerin is mixed with an absorbent inert substance like diatomaceous earth, it becomes much safer to handle?
Alfred Nobel
3398. Horses
Founder, an affliction of horses, resulting from overfeeding, affects what part of a horse?
hoofs
3399. Fables
What is the title of the fable by Aesop that ends with this moral? Better beans and bacon in peace than cakes and ale in fear.
The Town Mouse and the Country Mouse
3400. Nation Etymology
The conjunctive name for what southern European country was partly derived from the name of a river in the region and partly from the German title of nobility, 'Herzog,' which means duke?
Bosnia and Herzegovina
3401. Erosion
Aside from gravity, what has caused paractically all of the erosion on the Moon?
meteorites
3402. Novels
In Mollie Hunter's novel, 'A Stranger Came Ashore,' the selkies appear to be what kind of marine mammals that can take on human form?
seals
3403. Insects
The adult has four large glassy wings. Its head is occupied almost entirely by compound eyes. Its antennae are small. It cannot walk but flies as fast as 60 miles per hour. Name these slender, long-bodied insects that lay their eggs in water or on aquatic plants.
dragonflies
3404. Health
By considering the prefix and root word in 'dysopia,' you can surmise the term refers to defective what?
vision (sight)
3405. Mathematical Properties
For all real numbers a and b, if a = 0 or b = 0, then ab
equals what?
3406. Explorers
What Italian explorer is credited as being the first European to set foot on New York's Staten Island?
Giovanni da Verrazano
3407. Navigation
You can determine your latitude in the Northern Hemisphere by measuring the altitude, in degrees, of what star?
Polaris
3408. Adjectives
What is the superlative form of 'less'?
least
3409.
'Splurge' is a blend of 'splash' and ..
surge
3410. Similes
What phenomenon is described in this lame attempt at a simile? It was ominous-sounding, much like the sound of a thin sheet of metal being shaken backstage during the storm scene in a play.
thunder
3411. Lakes
What lake in northeastern New York, northwestern Vermont, and southern Quebec was named after the French explorer who served as commandant of New France in 1612 and Governor of Quebec in 1633?
Lake Champlain
3412. Naturalists
What Scottish emigrant headed a campaign that led to establishment of Yosemite National Park?
John Muir
3413. Acting
The '5 W's' that comprise the essential tools in understanding a dramatic character include who, where, when, what, and ...
why
3414. Psychology
While studying intently for a biology test, you imagine yourself on remote beach in Tahiti. What compound word refers to this common psychological phenomenon?
daydreaming
3415. Chemical Equations
An arrow pointing up in chemical equations means that the substance is in what state of matter?
gas
3416. Planetary Storms
The enormous storm observed continuously for over 300 years on Jupiter is called the Great what?
Red Spot
3417. Villains
These are villains in novels about what protagonist? Rosa Klebb, Sir Hugo Drax, Emilio Largo, Ernst Blofeld, Francisco Scaramanga
James Bond
3418. Song Lyrics
What two words complete this chorus from a patriotic song? Silver wings upon their chest These are men, America's best One hundred men will test today But only three win the ...
Green Beret
3419. Forms of Comedy
What type of comedy is associated with Laurel and Hardy, the Three Stooges, and the Keystone Kops?
slapstick
3420. Principal Parts of Verbs
What are the principal parts of 'stride'?
stride, strode, stridden
3421. The Continents
A relatively shallow, submerged portion of a continent, extending to a point of steep descent to the ocean floor is called a continental what?
continental shelf
3422. Weight
A 200-pound parachutist with bathroom scales tied beneath his feet falls from a high-flying airplane feet first. A few seconds later, what is his weight according
to the scales?
3423. Regions
What region is divided ethnically into Melanesia, Australasia, Micronesia, and Polynesia?
Oceania
3424. Latin Americans
Who was Mexico's first Native American president?
Benito Juarez
3425. Bodies of Water
What sea is between Borneo and Hong Kong?
South China Sea
3426. Albinism
Albinism is caused by the absence of what pigment in the skin?
melanin
3427. Ocean Location
The title of this work by Samuel Hearne indicates what ocean? A Journey from Prince of Wales's Fort in Hudson's Bay to the Northern Ocean
Arctic Ocean
3428. Law
What document in the U.S. is analogous to the Institutes of Justinian, the Decalogue, the Code of Hammurabi, and the Magna Carta?
Constitution
3429.
In what Pennsylvania town does a pudgy, burrowing rodent annually forecast the remaining days of winter?
Punxsutawney
3430. Ancient History
Many civilizations including Akkad, Sumer, Babylonia, and Assyria developed in a region of southwest Asia between the Euphrates and Tigris Rivers called ...
Mesopotamia
3431. Accords
The Camp David Accords, written during Jimmy Carter's presidency, chiefly involved Egypt and what other nation?
Israel
3432. American Novels
What story about the love between a boy and his dog is centered around a Southern family struggling to survive after the father is sent to prison for stealing food?
Sounder
3433. Chemistry History
What Russian chemist is usually credited with discovering that the properties of elements are periodic functions of their atomic weights?
Dmitri Mendeleev
3434. Islam
Name two of the three holiest cities of Islam.
Mecca, Medina, Jerusalem
3435. Chimneys
Name the enclosed passageway in a chimney that carries off smoke.
flue
3436. Assassination Attempts
Who said this when a folded manuscript and an eyeglass case in his pocket foiled an assassin's bullet in 1912? It takes more than that to kill a bull moose.
Theodore Roosevelt
3437. Amendments
John Rockefeller said this about what amendment in 1932? I hoped that it would be widely supported by public opinion and the day would soon come when the evil effects of alcohol would be recognized. I have slowly and reluctantly come to believe that this has not been the result. Instead, drinking has generally increased. The speakeasy has replaced the saloon.
18th Amendment
3438. Atoms
An atom with one or more extra electrons has what kind of electrical charge?
negative
3439. Medical Malapropisms
What word should have completed this statement? His condition was poor, having undergone a massive cerebral hemorrhoid.
hemorrhage
3440. Botany
Thin outgrowths from a plant root's epidermis cells that increase the surface area of a root for absorption of water and minerals are called root what?
hairs
3441. Propulsion
Jets and rockets are two of the means of providing forward thrust to an aircraft. Name the third means associated with practically all successful aircraft prior to the 1940s.
propeller
3442. Urban Settings
What city serves for at least part of the setting for all these works? Patriot Games The Da Vinci Code The Sign of Four Dracula The Picture of Dorian Gray The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde
London
3443. Ratio
Express as a fraction the ratio of the circumference of a circle to its diameter.
22/7
3444. Explorers
This account about James Cook's three-year voyage concerns avoidance of what disease? Cook has succeeded with sauerkraut, but he entertains no great opinion of the antiscorbutic virtue of concentrated citrus juices.
scurvy
3445. Rhyme
Using letters of the alphabet, what is the rhyme scheme in this verse? The king sits in Dumferling town, Drinking the blood-red wine. 'Oh where will I get good sailors, To sail this ship of mine?'
abcb
3446. Fish Reproduction
The depositing of eggs by fish is called ...
spawning
3447. The Alphabet
In the Greek alphabet, what is the letter name for the equivalent of the English letter 'O'?
omega
3448. Chinese History
Name the march that effectively established Mao Zedong as leader of the Chinese Communist Party.
Long March
3449. Geometrical Triples
What two related terms make up the triple that ends as follows? ... and scalene
equilateral (equiangular), isosceles
3450. European Leaders
What position of leadership did these British people hold at various times? Harold Wilson, James Callaghan, Margaret Thatcher, John Major, Tony Blair, Gordon Brown, David Cameron
prime minister
3451. Deadly Baggage
In the 14th century, what was carried from southern China through central Asia, along the Silk Road to Baghdad, the Crimea, Genoa, Paris, London, and Scandinavia that killed some thirty-four million people?
black death (plague, bubonic plague)
3452.
The archaeopteryx is an ancestor of what kind of modern day animals?
birds
3453. Presidents
Name the two American presidents who held office during World War II.
Franklin Roosevelt, Harry Truman
3454. Ancient Chinese Physics
This Chinese quote from around 400 B.C. is similar to which of Isaac Newton's laws of motion? The cessation of motion is due to the opposing force and if there is no opposing force, the motion will never stop.
first law of motion
3455.
Just north of the tropic of Cancer and south of the tropic of Capricorn is what world-wide biome?
desert
3456. Punishment
A convict who is granted provisional freedom from incarceration under supervision and during good behavior is said to on what?
parole (or probation)
3457. Quadrilateral Areas
If the length of a rectangle is 3 times its width and its width is 5 centimeters, what is its area?
75 centimeters
3458. Publications
What is the collective name for these publications? Sports Illustrated Better Homes and Gardens Business Week Car and Driver
periodicals
3459. Natural Resources
Turpentine comes from certain species of which of the two main categories of trees?
coniferous
3460. 3
Approximately half the land area of the contiguous 48 states is in the drainage basin of what river?
Mississippi
3461. Pirate Poems
The man named in this poem ended up being known as what pirate? Edward Teach was a native of Bristol, and sailed from that port On board a privateer, in search of sport, As one of the crew, during the French War in that station, And for personal courage he soon gained his captain's approbation.
Blackbeard
3462. Bad Ads
What modifier is misplaced in this ad? Buy one dozen free and get another half dozen.
free
3463. Fossils
It was formed millions of years ago from a sticky fluid that oozed from the bark of evergreen trees. It is yellow or orange, and may contain preserved bodies of insects. Name this fossilized resin.
amber
3464. Political Party Emblems
Who was president when the emblem of the Democratic Party was a hickory pole and a broom?
Andrew Jackson
3465. Glaciers
What is another name for valley glaciers?
alpine (mountain) glaciers
3466. Space Exploration
In 2010, seven years after it was launched, the unmanned Japanese spacecraft Hayabusa returned to Earth after soft-landing on what kind of heavenly body?
asteroid
3467. Folk Music
An informal performance by folk singers is what kind of 'nanny'?
hootenanny
3468. North American Archipelagoes
Cape Hatteras, North Carolina is the nearest mainland to what British Overseas Territory off the east coast of the United States?
Bermuda
3469. Examinations
What kind of examination is required in the event of a coroner's inquest?
autopsy (post-mortem)
3470. 1
Justice Joseph Story wrote in his 'Commentaries on the Constitution of the United States' that the right of the citizens to keep and bear arms is the palladium of the liberties of the republic. What does 'palladium' mean?
safeguard, guarantee
3471. Music Talk
What musical term has these meanings? -a group of singers -a composition for a group of singers -a refrain sung by everyone
chorus
3472. Ceramics
Baking ceramic objects in a hot kiln defines what process?
firing
3473. Newspaper Headlines
What was the surname of the two people about whom this headline was written? Flying machine soars three miles in teeth of high wind over sand hills and waves on Carolina coast
Wright
3474. Lines
Given a line m and a point P that is not on m, how
many lines that pass through P are parallel to m?
3475. Dutch Settlements
Located on Manhattan Island, what was the principal town in the colony of New Netherland?
New Amsterdam
3476. Nutritional Imbalances
An insufficiency or excess of what dietary element may cause hypochloremia or hyperchloremia?
chlorine
3477. Ancient Betrothals
The fifth marriage of what Roman general who delivered the funeral speech for Julius Caesar was to Cleopatra?
Mark Antony
3478. Parts of Speech
As what part of speech is the word 'for' used in this example? Jill was confident she would get the job, for her uncle was the company's president.
conjunction
3479. Histories
The early chapters of these works are about what explorer? Conquistador History of the Conquest of Mexico
Hernando Cortes
3480. Ancient Athletes
The Spartans were the first Greeks to anoint themselves with what kind of oil before exercising in their gymnasia?
olive oil
3481. Medical Instruments
What was the absent-minded physician requesting when he asked a nurse to get that Y-shaped thing with the rubber tubing he uses to listen to sounds in patients’ chests?
stethoscope
3482. Independent Islands
The two autonomous regions within the Kingdom of Denmark are the Faeroe Islands and what other enormous island?
Greenland
3483. Writing Errors
Consider this line. A shade of purple which caught his fancy. Although that example is punctuated as a sentence, it is actually a sentence ...
fragment
3484. Astronomy
What is this passage about? Today, 88 are recognized by astronomers and they divide the sky into units just like state boundaries divide the United States.
constellations
3485. Frescoes
'Creation of Eve with Ezekiel,' 'God Gathering the Waters,' 'Persian Sibyl,' and 'God Creating the Sun, Moon, and Planets' are among the frescoes found on the ceiling of what chapel?
Sistine Chapel
3486. Texts
Name the section at the end of a textbook which might include these in a list. A History of English Drama A Critical History of English Poetry Oxford History of English Literature The Rise of the Novel
bibliography
3487. Wars
During what series of wars were the Knights Hospitaller and Knights Templar most active?
Crusades
3488. The Ocean Floor
The Aleutian Trench is just south of what sea?
Bering Sea
3489. Fables
In an Aesop fable, a skinny wolf meets a strong, fat mastiff. The wolf is envious at first, but then notices the dog's collar mark resulting from being tied up, often keeping him from running around wherever he wants. Seeing that, the wolf runs off to the forest. The moral is that it is better to starve free than to be a fat what?
slave (prisoner, captive)
3490. Revolutionaries
Maurice Bishop was a revolutionary who seized power in a 1979 coup and then held the title of prime minister of what country in the Windward Islands until he was himself overthrown in another coup and executed in 1983?
Grenada
3491. Figurative Language
This is an example of what figure of speech? He is simply a shiver looking for a spine to run up.
metaphor
3492. Shark Anatomy
Shark fins are fairly stiff, not because they are stiffened with bone, but with what other structural material?
cartilage
3493. Landforms
What aeolian landforms are most common in the Sahara?
sand dunes
3494. Forests
John Muir was referring to what kind of west coast trees when he said, 'This is the best tree-lovers monument that could possibly be found in all the forests of the world'
redwoods (sequoias)
3495. Africa
What African country is an island?
Madagascar
3496. Water
Connate groundwater is trapped in sedimentary deposits at the time of their formation. Meteoric groundwater is derived from what?
precipitation (rain, snow)
3497. Court
In a court of law, these are all examples of what? duress, self defense, insanity, intoxication, diminished responsibility
defenses
3498. Banners
The flag of what organization consists of a stylized world map from a perspective directly above the North Pole, surrounded by two olive branches?
United Nations
3499. Compass Directions
A compass direction of 315 degrees is halfway between what two cardinal directions?
north and west
3500. Mars
On Mars, what kind of a physical feature is Valles Marineris?
valley
3501. Phrases
What kind of phrase follows the infinitive in this? I intend to hike during the morning hours.
adverbial phrase
3502. History of Science
Name the medieval pseudoscience and precursor of chemistry through which people attempted to transmute lead into gold.
alchemy
3503. Infinitives
As what part of speech is the infinitive used in this statement? She waited to answer until she had completed baking her quiche.
adverb
3504. Heroes
This is about whom? Like so many war heroes, the former Swamp Fox faded into civilian life, protesting the continued persecution of Tories after the war and urging education as an antidote for tyranny.
Francis Marion
3505. Migrations
The land bridge between Siberia and Alaska, allowing people to migrate to North America some 20,000 years ago, was exposed during what age?
Ice Age
3506. Scientific Devices
What device is essentially a spinning top mounted on a pivoting cradle?
gyroscope
3507. Music Appreciation
What cry of approbation by an audience originated in Italy?
bravo
3508. Nonfiction
A recent nonfiction book subtitled 'The Fists of Righteous Harmony' is about what rebellion in the summer of 1900?
Boxer Rebellion
3509. Latitudes
Rounding your answer to the nearest ten degrees, the world's great deserts are at what latitude north or south of the equator?
30 degrees
3510. Naming Compounds
What is the name for a compound consisting of 1 atom of P and 3 atoms of Cl?
phosphorous chloride
3511. Subsistence
In contrast to agricultural societies which rely mainly on domesticated species, what is the hyphenated name for a primitive society in which most or all food is obtained from wild plants and animals?
hunter-gatherer
3512. 1
In 1733, after printing stories that accused the colonial governor of rigging elections and various other crimes, the publisher of the New York Weekly Journal was arrested and tried for seditious libel. At his trial, the judge ordered the jury to convict, but they returned a verdict of not guilty. Who was the defendant?
John Peter Zenger
3513.
The Flatiron Building rose 22 stories. Then the Singer Building rose to 47 stories, the Metropolitan Life tower to 50 stories, and the Woolworth Building to 55 stories. What is the collective name for these high, steel skeleton buildings?
skyscrapers
3514. Ecosystems
In contrast to a lentic ecosystem, a lotic ecosystem contains what kind of water?
running (moving) water
3515. Counties
These are counties of what U.S. state? Powder River, Sheridan, Missoula, Glacier, Big Horn, Custer, Lewis and Clark, Teton, Yellowstone
Montana
3516. Medieval Law
In the Middle Ages, if a peasant killed a deer considered property of a noble, the offense was punishable by death. Name the offense.
poaching
3517. Revolutionaries
He rode in triumph into Havana in January of 1959. Who was this revolutionary leader?
Fidel Castro
3518. Riverside States
Name either of the two states immediately across the Mississippi River from Arkansas.
Tennessee, Mississippi
3519. India
In 1756, Nawab of Bengal attacked the British East India Company and threw 146 British prisoners into a room less than 20 feet square. Only 23 survived overnight. This room became known as what?
Black Hole of Calcutta
3520. Eruptions
57 people were killed and 200 homes, 27 bridges, 15 miles of railways, 185 miles of highways, and 230 square miles of forest were devastated in 1980 when what stratovolcano in the Cascade volcanic arc 96 miles south of Seattle erupted?
Mt. St. Helens
3521. Fluid Mechanics
What happens to an object placed in a fluid if its density is greater than that of the fluid?
It sinks.
3522. Science Fiction
Name this work by Arthur Clarke. An enormous artifact enters our solar system. People land on its shell and begin exploring the complex, miles-long interior and then it leaves.
Rendezvous with Rama
3523. Reptilian Wildlife
In general usage, 'terrapin' is another name for what animals?
turtles (tortoises)
3524. Declaration Grammar
What is the first verb in the Declaration of Independence?
becomes
3525. Statistics
What adjective indicates statistics relating to births, mortality, marriages, health, and morbidity?
vital
3526. Employment
In some jobs, when an employee is first hired, what is the name for the period during which he is carefully watched to see if he can handle the job's responsibilities?
probation
3527. Art Museums
In what museum could you see the Hellenistic marble statues of Venus de Milo and the Winged Victory of Samothrace, da Vinci's Mona Lisa, and tens of thousands of other masterpieces from around the globe?
the Louvre
3528. Halloween Probability
A bag holds 6 carob candy canes, 8 licorice lollipops, and 14 guacamole gumballs. In lowest terms, the chances that the first item pulled randomly from the bag will be a gumball are ...
1/2 (or 1 in 2 or .5)
3529. Food Preparation
What is the term for cutting food into small even pieces of about 1/2 inch square?
cubing (dicing)
3530. Stage Directions
From the point of view of the audience, 'stage left' indicates which side of the stage?
right
3531. Statehood
The right to admit new states to the Union rests with what body?
Congress
3532. Waves
If ten wave crests pass a point in one second, what is the period?
one tenth of a second
3533. Body Cells
What type of cell can be either nonmyelinated or myelinated?
neuron (nerve cell)
3534. Petrological Analogies
Detrital, rounded, sand-sized particles comprise sandstone while detrital, silt-sized particles comprise ...
siltstone
3535. Dogs
This comment by Robert Benchley is about what kind of dog? They are ideal dogs for small children, as they are already stretched and pulled to such a length that the child cannot do much harm one way or the other.
dachshund
3536. South American Invasions
In the 16th century, the Inca army of over 40,000 was subjugated by a force of less than 200 led by what conquistador?
Francisco Pizarro
3537. Hydrology
The source and upper reaches of a stream are called what kind of waters?
headwaters
3538. Nonfiction
Who wrote these words? I recall many incidents of the summer of 1887 that followed my soul's sudden awakening. I did nothing but explore with my hands and learn the name of every object that I touched.
Helen Keller
3539. Animal Names
Most animals have two names. What is the general term for the second name of the critters in this list? Sula nebouxii - blue-footed booby Carcharodon carcharias - great white shark Odocoileus hemionus - mule deer Crotalus cerastes - sidewinder
common name
3540. Color
The three secondary colors include orange, violet, and what other?
green
3541. Observatories
What English observatory was established in 1675 to study the position of the Moon among the stars and to establish standard time to help navigators fix their longitudes?
Greenwich (Royal Observatory)
3542. Prohibited Airspace
Essentially a demilitarized zone in the sky, what is the military phrase for a region over which aircraft from a belligerent nation are not permitted to fly?
no-fly zone
3543. Apes
Apes have what kind of tails?
none (or vestigial)
3544. Medieval Weaponry
A club with a round metal or stone head is called a ...
mace
3545. Persia
The Greek cities in Asia Minor revolted against Persian rule. The Persians crushed the revolt and launched an attack on Athens itself in 490 B.C., but they were defeated by the Greeks at the battle of ...
Marathon
3546. Energy Transport
Ocean currents are one of the two main mechanisms by which solar energy is transported around the Earth. Identify the other.
winds
3547. Composers
Who wrote the music for these films? E.T., The Extraterrestrial Jaws Raiders of the Lost Ark Superman Born on the Fourth of July Star Wars
John Williams
3548. British Monarchs
Whom is this verse about? On June 28th fourteen ninety-one Henry the Seventh's wife gave birth to a son. Named after his father, he was to become England's most wedded King, bar none.
Henry VIII
3549. Dog Disorders
The improper development of the hip joint in dogs is called hip what?
dysplasia
3550. International Agencies
This is about what organization? It employs more than 34,000 people worldwide and spends 70 percent of its $1.35 billion annual budget on personnel-related costs. Its accounting practices are opaque and corruption is routinely documented.
United Nations
3551. Representation
Each state must have at least how many members in
the House of Representatives?
3552. National Parks
What national park occupies 1,584 square miles in northwestern Montana on the southern borders of Alberta and British Columbia?
Glacier National Park
3553. Misapprehensions
The Aztecs mistook what conquistador for Quetzalcoatl?
Cortes
3554. Literary Characters
Name the character in 'The Caine Mutiny' whose strawberry investigation was a reenactment of an earlier incident when he discovered who stole five pounds of cheese.
Captain Queeg
3555. Injuries
In a Type III sprain, what tissues are completely torn?
ligaments
3556. Political Party Evolution
During whose presidency in the 1820s did the Jeffersonian Republican Party evolve into the Democratic Party?
Andrew Jackson's
3557. Triangle Areas
Find the area of a triangle with a base of 9 inches and a height of 6 inches.
27 square inches
3558. Poems
This illustrates what kind of poem? Today your surface Is a mirror where the sky Bends to see itself.
haiku
3559. Deposits
You are investigating an unstratified sedimentary deposit composed of rock fragments of all sizes mixed together in random fashion, ranging from boulders to tiny clay and colloid particles. Some large fragments are striated and faceted. What deposited this material?
a glacier
3560. Languages
What language is the dominant classical and scholarly language of the Indian subcontinent, the sacred language of Hinduism, and the scriptural language of Buddhism?
Sanskrit
3561. Adjectives
Identify the demonstrative adjective in this example. When the old caretaker tripped over that little wagon, he dropped the entire pile of rusty tools he was carrying in his withered arms.
that
3562. Seas
What sea, an arm of the Mediterranean, lies between the Dardanelles and Crete?
Aegean Sea
3563. Parks
There are two U.S. national parks that include the word 'glacier' in their names. These parks are in what states?
Montana, Alaska
3564. Prisoners
Voltaire and the Marquis de Sade were among the most famous detainees in what Paris prison?
Bastille
3565. Penguin Tissues
Penguins that sit on their eggs for weeks without feeding are living off the fat reserves stored in what kind of tissues?
adipose
3566. Unusual Plants
What carnivorous plants have a prey-trapping mechanism featuring a deep cavity filled with liquid?
pitcher plants
3567. Algebraic Division
Divide (6p/q) by 3/q.
2p
3568.
The European part of what country is adjacent to the Ukraine, Belarus, Latvia, Estonia, and Finland?
Russia
3569. Wrist Anatomy
Name the passageway composed of bone and ligament through which a major nerve system of the forearm passes into the hand.
carpal tunnel
3570. Canadian History
Around the year 1800, most of the settlers in Lower Canada were French while most of them in Upper Canada were ...
British
3571. Writing
What is the name for writing that is exactly backwards from normal writing?
mirror writing
3572. Borders
What state is bordered by Rhode Island, Connecticut, New York, Vermont, and New Hampshire?
Massachusetts
3573. Central America
How many Central American countries do not border
the Pacific Ocean?
3574. Gorgeous Gorges
What is the most prominent gorge in the vicinity of the homelands of the Hualapai, Havasupai, Southern Paiute, and Navajo tribes?
Grand Canyon
3575. Authors’ Revisions
Who originally called her heroine Pansy O'Hara, and named Tara 'Fontenoy Hall'?
Margaret Mitchell
3576. Anatomy
In reference to anatomy, what is the antonym of 'proximal'?
distal
3577. Enumerations
If the fourth U.S. census was conducted in 1820, the sixth was conducted in ...
1840
3578. Vultures
This vulture reaches a length of more than four feet and has a wing expanse of ten feet. Name this bird of the Peruvian and Chilean Andes.
condor
3579. 2
By arbitrary agreement, the graph of the dependent variable in an experiment is plotted on which axis?
y-axis (ordinate)
3580. Music Man Music
In the musical, 'The Music Man,' the songs 'Lida Rose' and 'Will I Ever Tell You' are sung separately and then together. This technique of combining two melodies is called ...
counterpoint
3581. Spectra
The visible spectrum is wavelengths of radiant energy between about 3000 and 8000 angstroms. What is the corresponding name for the spectrum including all other wavelengths from gamma rays to radio waves?
invisible spectrum
3582. South American Geography
Directly east of Bolivia lies what nation?
Brazil
3583. Black Stuff
Name the soft, black, hexagonally crystallized allotrope of carbon with a metallic luster and a greasy feel.
graphite
3584. Last Lines
What two words complete this last line in George Orwell's '1984'? He loved ...
Big Brother
3585. Drainages
The rivers of northeast Manitoba all drain into what body of water?
Hudson Bay
3586. Court Etiquette
What is the proper way to address a judge in court?
your honor
3587. Parks
Named after a variety of yucca, what is the southernmost national park in California?
Joshua Tree
3588. Sunken Ships
The wreck of what ship that once carried Fletcher Christian and William Bligh is still visible underwater just off Pitcairn Island in Bounty Bay?
the Bounty
3589. Short Latin Words
What Latin word is inserted in a text to indicate that the preceding word or phrase has been reproduced exactly as in the original text, thus calling attention to the fact that it is wrong in some way?
sic
3590. Earthquakes
The shock from an earthquake spreads out from a point on the Earth's surface. Name that point.
epicenter
3591. Congressional Titles
What is the title of the second-ranking member of the majority party in the House of Representatives and the highest-ranking member of the Senate?
majority leader
3592. 8th-Century Literature
This is from what work? The grim demon was called Grendel, a notorious ranger of the borderlands, who inhabited the fastness of moors and fens. This unhappy being had long lived in the land of monsters.
Beowulf
3593. Figures of Speech
What figure of speech is illustrated by these examples? unbiased opinion deafening silence original copies genuine imitation
oxymoron
3594. Earthquake Mathematics
The Richter scale used in measuring earthquakes represents what type of mathematical scale?
logarithmic
3595. Organs
What digestive organ in the adult human body weighs about three and a half pounds, measures about 8 inches across, 6.5 inches vertically, and is 4.5 inches thick?
liver
3596. Cartography
Which of the kinds of imaginary crisscrossing lines used in cartography are not parallel?
meridians (lines of longitude)
3597. Travel Math
Bubba drove his Harley from one town to the next averaging 64 mph. His average speed for the return trip was 80 mph and his total travel time was 9 hours. How far apart are the towns?
320 miles
3598. Transportation Projects
The European Chunnel links what two countries?
Great Britain and France
3599. Dissolving
When a substance dissolves in a liquid, the resulting mixture is a ...
solution
3600. Exhortations
Complete this statement by Patrick Henry. Let us not split into factions which must destroy that union upon which our existence hangs. United we stand, ...
divided we fall
3601. Vitamins
The skin is able to synthesize what vitamin when it is exposed to sunlight?
vitamin D
3602. Myths
This is about what Titan? He alone objected to Zeus' plan to destroy the race of men. To save the human race, he courageously committed a crime and brought fire down from heaven and taught the mortals how to use it.
Prometheus
3603. Insects
These are characteristics of what insects? They are hunters. They have two pairs of stiff wings. They have the largest compound eyes of all insects. As nymphs they live in the water.
dragonflies
3604.
Name the two largest cities of Iraq.
Baghdad, Basra
3605. Territorial Growth
The territory that now comprises all or part of Indiana, Ohio, Kentucky, Tennessee, and Michigan was acquired by the United States in 1783 from what country?
Great Britain
3606. Historic Sites
The San Juan National Historic Site is located on what island that is a U.S. commonwealth?
Puerto Rico
3607. Taxonomic Biology
Cetacea is an order of aquatic mammals that includes dolphins and ...
whales (or porpoises)
3608. Speech Sounds
What is the name for two letters that represent one sound in these words? philosophy, daughter, deceive, Aesop, dash
digraphs
3609. Historical Lows
The sack of Washington marked the low point of American fortunes during what war?
War of 1812
3610. Historical Paintings
A famous painting by Emanuel Leutze is entitled 'Washington Crossing the ...'
Delaware
3611. Smoke Signals
What is indicated by black smoke following a secret ballot of the College of Cardinals in Rome?
no new pope has been elected
3612. Prime Ministers
Golda Meir was the first female prime minister of what country?
Israel
3613. Enduring Events
To what international event does the pronoun in this recent passage refer? They have survived two World Wars and a cold one, not to mention mismanagement, terrorism, professionalism, drug abuse, and overcommercialization.
Olympics
3614. Pennsylvania History
In 1732, on Chestnut Street in Philadelphia, the foundation was laid for a brick building with a tower. When completed, it was known as the State House and later as ...
Independence Hall
3615. Influential Writings
In 1776, Thomas Paine wrote what document that attacked the monarchical principle and the Tory assumption that the English constitution was divine?
Common Sense
3616. U
Glacier-clad peaks including Mount Olympus, gorgeous alpine meadows, and extensive old-growth forest characterize what national park in northwest Washington?
Olympic National Park
3617. United Nations
For what principal organization of the United Nations does the abbreviation GA stand?
General Assembly
3618. Insectivora
Name the two North American mammals that belong to the order, Insectivora.
mole, shrew
3619. Algebraic Operations
From 3p - 2 subtract -7p + 5.
10p -7
3620. Nicknames
These guys were linked with what organization? Vincent 'The Chin' Gigante Bernardo 'The Tractor' Provenzano Pine 'The Shoe' Greco Vicenzo 'The Tempest' Sinagra Salvatore 'Sammy the Bull' Gravano
the Mafia
3621. Bears
Grizzly and Kodiak bears are subspecies of what broader classification of bears?
brown bears
3622. DNA
Adenine is one of how many chemical bases in DNA?
four
3623. Wilde Stories
At the end of what story by Oscar Wilde do servants find a bloated ugly corpse with a knife in its chest next to a painting of the deceased as he had been 18 years earlier?
The Picture of Dorian Gray
3624. Competition
Intraspecific competition involves members of the same species. What kind of competition involves different species?
interspecific competition
3625. Etymology
The words captain, capital, caprice, biceps and cadet are derived from the Latin word 'caput' which means
head
3626. Investigations
This is about whose murder? I picked up the Dallas phone book and ran my fingers down the Z's. There it was, Zapruder comma Abraham. When I reached him that evening, I asked, 'Is it true that you photographed the assassination?'
John Kennedy's
3627. Vermont
Much of what is now Vermont was originally a French possession that became British territory after what war?
French and Indian (or Seven Years) War
3628. Nonfiction
Randy Shilts work, 'And the Band Played On,' examines the first five years of the development of what epidemic in the U.S.?
AIDS
3629. Algebraic Ratios
Express this continued ratio in lowest terms. 15p to 10p to 5p
3 to 2 to 1
3630. Space Vehicles
The rocket that SpaceX uses to deliver cargo to the International Space Station is named after what extraordinarily swift bird of prey?
falcon
3631. Scientific Method
Gregor is trying to determine the effect of a fertilizer on plant growth. What type of variables are these in this experiment? latitude ambient noise level moon phase sex of experimenter
extraneous (intervening)
3632. Inheritance
In higher organisms, all cells except germ cells contain one set of what inherited from each parent?
chromosomes
3633. Peninsulas
What enormous peninsula lies between Egypt and India?
Arabian Peninsula
3634. Communism
Immediately following the revolution in Russia there was a panic in the U.S. that communism would continue to spread in this country. This was the ---- scare.
Red
3635. Congressional Representation
Residents of what mainland U.S. district have less political representation than other U.S. citizens?
District of Columbia (Washington D.C.)
3636. News Stories
The fighting described below took place in what country in 1991? Armed with spears, knives and axes, rival supporters of the African National Congress and the Zulu-led Inkatha Freedom Party fought one another in the townships of Johannesburg last week.
South Africa
3637. Water Treatment
Fluoridation of domestic water helps prevent what?
cavities (caries, tooth decay)
3638. Word Problems
P and Q are two different numbers selected from the first forty integers. What is the largest possible value of (PxQ)/(P-Q)?
1560
3639. Weaponry
'Bleeding Kansas' is associated with whose 'bibles'?
Beecher's bibles
3640. Oceans
The Davis Strait provides a route between what two oceans?
Atlantic, Arctic
3641. Monuments
By its title, you know that what creature is part of this monument? Equestrian Monument of Bartolommeo Colleoni
horse
3642. Gas Volume
A 738 milliliter volume of gas at zero degrees C under a pressure of 760 millimeters of mercury is cooled to minus 200 degrees C and compressed to 75 atmospheres. What is the volume of the gas now?
2.6 milliliters
3643. Military Engagements
This is about what war? In June of 1952 U.N. air attacks destroyed major hydroelectric installations on the Yalu.
Korean War
3644. Grammar
Subject complements follow what kind of a verb?
linking verb
3645. Narratives
What verb tense is used in the narration of most novels?
past tense
3646. Clots
The formation of a blood clot in an artery that supplies the brain is called a cerebral ...
thrombosis (occlusion)
3647. Alkaloids
What organic alkaloid present in tomatoes and tobacco was named after the French diplomat and scholar, Jean Nicot?
nicotine
3648. Urban Areas
These are cities of what country? Dak To Quan Long Khe Sanh Pleiku
Vietnam
3649. Italian Ceramics
What Italian term, used in ceramics, literally means 'cooked earth'?
terra cotta
3650. Forests
In what state are the Ocala, Choctawhatchee, Apalachicola, and Osceola national forests located?
Florida
3651. U
Most of New York City lies on what island?
Manhattan Island
3652.
Apache tears is one name for a dark and glassy igneous rock. Another name for this rock is ...
obsidian
3653. Terrorists
In the horrific bombing at the 2013 Boston Marathon, what Russian republic was the home of the two brothers who placed the explosives?
Chechnya
3654. Outdoor Injuries
Name the skin condition where prolonged, rapidly-moving air removes the oil from the skin surface causing excessive dryness, redness, and a burning feeling.
windburn
3655. Colonial Quotes
This was stated by the leader of which American colony? That so we might after a more special manner rejoice together after we had gathered the fruit of our labors.
Plymouth
3656. Territorial Expansion
Name the land deal, consummated in 1853, through which the U.S. acquired border territory from Mexico for $10 million.
Gadsden Purchase
3657. Pronouns
How is the reflexive pronoun used in this example? Old Zeke decided to give himself a bath.
indirect object
3658. Free Fall
How long does it take a watermelon to fall 122.5 meters?
5 seconds
3659. Clauses
This illustrates what kind of subordinate clause? Ryan cut bait because he couldn't fish.
adverb clause
3660. The Mideast
What Egyptian statesman wanted to create a union with Syria and Yemen called the United Arab Republic?
Gamal Nasser
3661. Forms of Government
These features are typical of what form of government? -one political party -complete national effort directed towards the goals of the party -control over every aspect of citizen's lives
totalitarianism
3662.
If the noon meridian sweeps over 360 degrees of longitude every day, it must travel how many degrees of longitude every hour?
15 degrees
3663. Fantasies
In what book by Chris Van Allsburg do these things happen? -Peter rolls a seven and unleashes a lion. -Judy rolls an eight and releases monkeys. -Judy rolls the dice and creates a Rhinoceros stampede. -Peter rolls the dice and releases a python.
Jumanji
3664. Literary Aunts
What name is shared by Pollyanna's aunt and Tom Sawyer's aunt?
Polly
3665. Sad Poetry
What name completes this excerpt? And this was the reason that, long ago, In this kingdom by the sea, A wind blew out of a cloud, chilling My beautiful ...
Annabel Lee
3666.
What synonym for a maxim or truism completes this palindrome? Egad, an ...
adage
3667. Wordiness
Worthington is a member of the personality class exhibiting the tendency to term a foot-operated humus redistribution device a foot-operated humus redistribution device. In other words, he calls a...
spade a spade
3668. The Senate
If a quorum is not present in the U.S. Senate, the only business that is in order is either to either direct the sergeant-at-arms to request the attendance of the absentees or to entertain a motion to do what?
adjourn
3669. The Nervous System
The sympathetic branch is one of the two subdivisions of the autonomic nervous system. Name the other.
parasympathetic
3670. Cinematic Influences
In 1934, there was a sudden slump in men's underwear sales after moviegoers saw what prominent actor in the film, 'It Happened One Night,' remove his shirt and reveal that he had no undershirt?
Clark Gable
3671. Ozone
The rate of ozone production in the atmosphere depends on the concentration of oxygen and the intensity of what band of the solar spectrum?
ultraviolet
3672. Liquids
The cooling of a liquid to below its freezing point without a change from the liquid to solid state is called
supercooling
3673. Science Fiction
This excerpt is from what H.G. Wells story? We have learned now that we cannot regard this planet as being fenced in and a secure abiding place for Man. We can never anticipate the unseen good or evil that may come upon us suddenly out of space.
The War of the Worlds
3674. Earth Science
What disastrous phenomenon would people in Hawaii have to fear upon receiving this transmission from Kodiak Island? A SEVERE EARTHQUAKE HAS OCCURRED IN THE VICINITY OF SEWARD ALASKA.
tsunami (tidal wave)
3675. Asteroids
The three main groupings of asteroids are the C-type which are carbon rich, the S-type which are stony, and the M-type which are what?
metallic
3676. Decimals
Express 10/33 as a repeating decimal.
303030...
3677. Bear Attacks
What species of bear was responsible for these fatalities? Kevin Kammer in Montana's Gallatin National Forest Erwin Evert in Wyoming's Shoshone National Forest John Wallace in Yellowstone National Park Richard White in Denali National Park
grizzly bear
3678. Topics of Science
These topics all pertain to what field of earth science? azimuth parallax perturbation occultation solstice ecliptic
astronomy
3679. Teeth
What kind of tooth has a single point and is often used for holding or stabbing prey?
canine
3680. Aircraft
In what war were jet aircraft first used by both sides?
Korean War
3681. Plural Analogies
This is a question on plurals. Journey is to journeys as salmon is to ...
salmon
3682. Mottoes
According to the Oklahoma state motto, 'Labor vincet omnia,' what does work do?
conquers all
3683. Hemingway
Ernest Hemingway's story, 'The Undefeated,' is about Manual Garcia and his involvement in what sport?
bullfighting
3684. Flags
On some early New England flags was a pine tree with a serpent coiled around the trunk. Complete this line from below the image. Don't ...
tread on me
3685. Monumental Mugs
The Mount Rushmore monument is carved on a cliff in what hills?
the Black Hills
3686. Evictions
In 2009, 44 months after Hurricane Katrina, what federal agency moved to empty some 4,600 trailers and shut down the most expensive emergency housing program in U.S. history?
FEMA
3687. Metallurgy
In what kind of furnace are fuel and ore supplied through the top and air blown in from the bottom?
blast furnace
3688. Representatives
How many seats in the U.S. House of Representatives are up for election every two years?
435 (all of them)
3689. Flags
The flag of what former country consisted of a hammer, sickle, and star on a red background?
Soviet Union (U.S.S.R.)
3690. Monuments
What term for an ancient structure or monument comes from two Greek words meaning 'great' and 'stone'?
megalith
3691. Ancient Fathers
Who was the father of the ancient military commander who established more than seventy cities, many of which were named Alexandria in his honor?
Philip of Macedon
3692. International Relations
In 1973, the U.S. and what Caribbean nation signed an anti-hijacking agreement?
Cuba
3693. Medical Idioms
Someone to be operated on is said to be going under what surgical instrument?
the knife
3694. Industrial Pioneers
Who pioneered the system of mass production by using metal patterns to guide machine tools and make exact replicas of parts?
Eli Whitney
3695. Animals
What group of living creatures is described by these features? -lay eggs on land -poikilothermic -dry, scaly skins
reptiles
3696. Curves
Although colloquially, it is called a spiral staircase, because of its three dimensions, it should be called what kind of staircase?
helical staircase
3697. Spiritual Experimentation
What one-time Harvard lecturer had these nicknames because of his experiments with hallucinogens? Chemical Messiah Supersalesman of the Turned-on Generation Guru of LSD
Timothy Leary
3698. The Transitive Property
According to the transitive property, if z equals 2x
and 2x equals 8, then z equals ...
3699. Electronic Security
Guaranteeing the privacy of data on computer networks through complex algorithmic codes is called
encryption
3700. Plant Anatomy
Identify the flattened structures that develop from a superficial group of tissues on the sides of the stem apex.
leaves
3701. Vaporization
The molar heat of vaporization for sodium chloride is 40.8 kilocalories per mole. How much heat is needed to vaporize 4 moles of this substance?
163.2 kilocalories
3702. Ocean Life Appendages
Name the specialized feet characteristic of echinoderms.
tube feet
3703. Composers
Although he was born in Germany, Beethoven moved while he was in his early twenties to what other country where he composed most of his works?
Austria
3704. Medians
The medians of a triangle meet at a point which is what fraction of the distance from any vertex to the midpoint of the opposite side?
2/3
3705. Ships
What ship that completed a 16th-century circumnavigation was commanded by the vice admiral of the fleet that destroyed the Spanish Armada?
Golden Hind
3706. History of Physics
Isaac Newton is associated with three laws of ...
motion
3707. Books
These apply to what book? It permits polygamy. It teaches the virtues of charity. It tells the faithful to fast and give alms. It was revealed in the seventh century.
Koran
3708. Surveying
A subdivision of a county larger than a town is called Wl os
township
3709. Political Groups
Name the political party founded in 1874 to promote the issuance of legal tender paper currency not backed by precious metals.
Greenback Party
3710. 5
What vestigial abdominal organ is routinely removed when it becomes severely inflamed?
appendix
3711. Stars
Rigel and Betelgeuse are the two brightest stars in what constellation?
Orion
3712. Density Problems
Mercury has a density of 13.6 grams per cubic centimeter. To the nearest whole number, five kilograms of mercury occupy how many cubic centimeters?
368
3713. Short Stories
This is from what story by O. Henry? 'Dell,' said he, 'let's put our Christmas presents away and keep 'em a while. They're too nice to use just at present. I sold the watch to get the money to buy your combs. And now suppose you put the chops on.
The Gift of the Magi
3714. Continents
On which continent is there an open grassland called the veldt?
Africa
3715. Electricity
A galvanic cell in which the anode and cathode reactants are supplied continuously, so power can be drawn from the cell unceasingly is called a ...
fuel cell
3716. Fantasies
The plot of Lewis Carroll's 'Through the Looking Glass' is built around moves in a game of ...
chess
3717. Astronomy History
What Renaissance astronomer discovered that Venus has phases just like the Moon, thus demonstrating that Venus orbits its source of light?
Galileo
3718. Paradoxes
According to Hegel's paradox, man learns from history that man learns nothing from ...
history
3719. Clipped Words
'Mum' is a clipped word for what showy flowers?
chrysanthemum
3720. New World Colonizers
The five kingdoms that first established colonies in the New World included the English, French, Spanish, Portuguese, and the ...
Dutch
3721. Symptoms
Often occurring at the beginning of an infection and often associated with a fever, name the sensation of coldness accompanied by shivering and paleness.
chills
3722. South America
A boat sailing northwest from the Falkland Islands would make land in what South American country?
Argentina
3723. Trigonometry
On an alphabetical list, which trigonometric ratio is first?
cosine
3724. Maritime Ceremonies
What Roman god of the sea traditionally presides at crossing-the-equator ceremonies?
Neptune
3725. Weird Situations
What is the term for the kind of incongruity illustrated in this situation? Mr. Fennik was caught in a traffic jam and arrived too late to receive his award from the City Council for reducing the town's automobile congestion.
irony
3726. Bays
The northernmost terminal of the Trans-Alaska Pipeline is what bay off the Beaufort Sea?
Prudhoe Bay
3727. Military Intervention
Although the United Nations did not sanction the bombing attacks on Serbian military targets in 1999, what alliance unanimously did?
NATO
3728. Danger
What international radiotelephone distress signal has the same meaning as the Morse code signal, 'SOS'?
mayday
3729. Presidents
Who became the U.S. president in the same year that the French Revolution began?
George Washington
3730. Human Rights
Violations of rights include extrajudicial execution, torture, arbitrary detention, and slavery, otherwise known as involuntary ...
servitude
3731. Settings
What national park is the setting for Will Hobbs' novel, 'Downriver'?
Grand Canyon
3732. Disasters
What disaster in 2008 led to gas prices temporarily exceeding $5 per gallon in some areas of Louisiana and Texas?
Hurricane Ike
3733. Forms of Literature
What literary term rhyming with 'harpoon' refers to a form of writing which ridicules and satirizes?
lampoon
3734. Canals
Consisting of three sections, what is the longest part of your alimentary canal?
small intestine
3735. Big Fishies
What plankton-eating fish can be more than 50 feet long and weigh about 2 tons?
whale shark
3736. Landforms
In the Coral Sea off the eastern coast of Queensland in Australia is what spectacular series of coral islands, reefs, and shoals?
Great Barrier Reef
3737. Fantasy Characters
Who is the heroine in Stephanie Meyer's 'Twilight' saga?
Bella (Isabella) Swan
3738. Clam Construction
What kind of joint connects the two halves of clam shells?
hinge joint
3739. Ancient Civilizations
What great Indian civilization of the Yucatan Peninsula had a calendar dating to 600 B.C.?
Maya
3740. Vertebral Injuries
In severe whiplash injuries, which subdivision of vertebrae are most likely to be injured?
cervical vertebrae
3741.
Legally, the failure to respond to external stimuli, the absence of reflex movement, and prolonged flat electroencephalograph readings are indicators of what kind of death?
brain death
3742. Story Authors
'The Hunting of the Snark' was written by ...
Lewis Carroll
3743. Short Story Settings
What country is the setting for Hemingway's story, 'In Another Country,' in which Nick Adams is hospitalized while trying to regain use of a knee wounded in a World War I skirmish?
Italy
3744. Epic Fantasies
These are among the fourteen titles in what series of novels attributed to Robert Jordan? New Spring The Eye of the World The Great Hunt The Dragon Reborn The Fires of Heaven Lord of Chaos Crossroads of Twilight
Wheel of Time
3745. Wiring
In an electrical outlet, the black wire usually connected to the right side of an electrical outlet is the hot wire carrying 120 volts. What is the voltage of the
other side connected to a white wire?
3746. Battles
These battles were fought during what decade? Meuse-Argonne, Amiens, Somme, Jutland, Verdun
1910s
3747. Officeholders
These people have held what office in what city? Abraham Beame, Edward Koch, David Dinkins, Rudolph Giuliani, Michael Bloomberg
mayor of New York City
3748. Digestive Analogies
In the digestive system, proteases are to proteins as lipases are to ...
lipids (fats)
3749. Protozoans
What protozoans get around by using pseudopodial locomotion?
amoebas
3750. Paleontology
The study of extinct animals is paleozoology. Name the study of extinct plants.
paleobotany
3751. Football
In the NFL, when a game is tied at the end, the winner is declared who is the first to score in an overtime period. What is this called?
sudden death
3752. Ben Jonson
What are the last words in this line by Ben Jonson? Drink to me only with thine eyes And I will pledge ...
with mine
3753. Bear Behavior
Bears are mistakenly said to be doing what when they are actually denning?
hibernating
3754. Root Words
What is the meaning of the root in audience, auditory, audible, and auditorium?
hear
3755. Muscle
Which of the three types of muscle tissue is found in the walls of hollow internal organs?
smooth
3756. Algebraic Multiplication
Multiply 3a times 4b times 5c.
60abc
3757. Modifiers
What adjective in this quote by Faulkner is in the comparative degree? She was over thirty then, still a slight woman, though thinner than usual, with haughty black eyes in a face the flesh of which was strained across the temples.
thinner
3758. Divisible Numbers
What multiple of 12 that is smaller than 50 is the smallest number with 10 divisors?
48
3759. Marine Plants
Found in cool coastal waters where sunlight can penetrate to a rocky seabed is what seaweed that can grow 300 feet in a single year?
kelp
3760. Cuisine
You mash a few avocados in a bowl with lemon juice, grated onion, salsa, pepper, and salt. Identify this popular dish.
guacamole
3761. Rhombus Geometry
What is the other diagonal of a 35-square-inch thombus if one diagonal is 7?
10
3762. East Coast Islands
In what state is the island located that the Dutch originally called Conyne Eylandt?
New York
3763.
In this example footnote, which words should be in quotation marks? Mars Observer - Call Home, Miami Herald, 18 December 1993, p. 22.
Mars Observer - Call Home
3764. Deserts
Name the only two countries that are at least partially located in the Gobi Desert.
China, Mongolia
3765. Great Lakes History
In 1813, ten U.S. vessels under Commodore Oliver Perry met six British vessels under Captain James Barclay in a battle on which of the Great Lakes?
Lake Erie
3766. Acting
Well, the play was going great until the lead actor suddenly forgot his next line. Fortunately, the stage manager was able to whisper the line to him and things went on from there. Supplying an actor with a forgotten line is called what?
prompting (cueing)
3767. New Nations
In 1844, Santo Domingo gained her independence from Haiti and established what new republic on the island of Hispaniola?
Dominican Republic
3768. Legends
The creature described as a half-woman and half-cat that supposedly still haunts the forests of East Tennessee is known as what cat?
Wampus Cat
3769. Confirmation
What body is responsible for confirming appointments of associate justices to the Supreme Court?
Senate
3770. Vocalists
In 1945, Mahalia Jackson's records sold by the millions, including such songs as 'I Believe' and 'He's Got the Whole World ...'
in His Hands
3771. Abnormal Psychology
Someone who is anhedonic is unable to unable to feel or experience what?
pleasure
3772. Ocean Life
While nekton swim freely in the oceans, what category of microscopic marine organisms simply drift around, mostly near the surface?
plankton
3773. Zoology
Horses are to stallions and mares as swine are to what?
boars and sows
3774. Space Travelers
What was the Soviet equivalent of an American astronaut?
cosmonaut
3775. Perilous Races
The continuous competition between the Soviet Union and the United States to establish technical and numerical supremacy in the production of nuclear weapons was called what race?
arms race
3776.
What phase of the Moon is exactly opposite the gibbous phase?
crescent phase
3777. Libraries
The Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library is in what state?
Illinois
3778. Fictional Nations
In '1984,' which is last in a list of the three superstates?
Oceania
3779. Climates
The three major climate zones are temperate, tropical, and ...
polar
3780. Palindromes
What word completes this palindromic inquiry? Eva, can I pose as Aesop ina...
cave
3781. Central America
What is the capital of the Central American nation immediately south of the country whose capital is Tegucigalpa?
Managua
3782. Adventure Novels
What paranormal ability is central to Steven Gould's novel, 'Jumper'?
teleportation
3783. The Solar System
What two planets in the solar system lack at least one satellite?
Mercury, Venus
3784. Liquids
What is defined as a liquid which dissolves another compound to form a homogeneous liquid mixture in one phase?
solvent
3785. Botany
Which common plant life has holdfasts?
algae (or seaweed)
3786. Compositions
A requiem is a musical composition written to accompany what ceremony?
funeral (mass)
3787. Spectacular Sights
In 1678, Louis Hennepin was so moved by the sight of what enormous cascade that he exclaimed, 'The universe does not afford its parallel'?
Niagara Falls
3788. Epitaphs
What was the occupation of the man whose epitaph reads as follows? Jedediah Goodwin Born 1828 Going! Going!! Going!!! Gone!!! 1876
auctioneer
3789. International Competition
In the closing ceremonies of the 2012 games in London, the Olympic flag was handed over to the mayor of what city?
Rio de Janeiro
3790. Botany
You're walking along a flagstone path to an old mansion in Kentucky and spot something growing in grayish scaly patches right on the path. Name this primitive life form that consists of fungus and algae.
lichen
3791. Fields of Science
The application of science to criminal investigation to provide evidence useful in the solution of crimes is what science?
forensic science
3792. Measurement
What system, the name of which is reminiscent of an ancient city in Asia Minor discovered by Heinrich Schliemann, is used for precious metals and gems?
troy system
3793. Broadcasts
In 1937, the radio broadcaster Herbert Morrison lost control and cried 'Oh the humanity!' A few moments later, he declared, 'There is not a chance for anyone to be saved!' But, in fact, sixty-one of the ninety-seven passengers on what aircraft survived?
Hindenburg
3794. Explorers
Who was the first European to set foot on the island of San Salvador?
Christopher Columbus
3795. Literature
These works are what type of literature? The Spirit of St. Louis Luce and His Empire The Man from New York Profiles in Courage The Taft Story
biographies
3796. The Ocean Floor
A narrow and exceptionally deep depression parallel to the edge of a continent or island arc is called a ...
trench
3797. Cities
What is the capital of the state which includes these cities? Kearney, Scottsbluff, Omaha, North Platte
Lincoln
3798. Big Eyes
Even though the giant squid has the largest eyes of any creature, it can only see black and white. Therefore, its retinas lack what light-sensitive cells that humans have?
cones
3799. Treaties
Signed in a Dutch city, the Treaty of Utrecht essentially ended what early 18th-century war?
War of the Spanish Succession
3800.
What does the root word 'graph' mean?
write
3801. Rivers
The source of these rivers is on what plateau? Mekong, Ganges, Yangtze, Yellow, Indus
Tibetan Plateau
3802. Short Stories
The special substance described in a short story, 'Dr. Heidegger's Experiment,' is also associated with what Spanish explorer?
Ponce de Leon
3803. Logic Problems
What is the conclusion of this syllogism? All rifles are nice. No nice things are cheap. This gun is a rifle.
This gun is not cheap.
3804. British Victories
In 1777, General William Howe's army captured what city that was then serving as the American capital?
Philadelphia
3805. Industrialists
This is about whom? He built his first car in 1893, his first Model T in 1908 and, by 1920, he had built most of the eight million horseless carriages rattling around the American countryside.
Henry Ford
3806. A Foreshadowing of Disaster
This refers to an impeding disaster in what country in 1953? The great stone dikes that had protected the land for centuries groaned under the assault of the swollen sea. In Colijnsplaat, the dike master sent for sandbags and reinforcing beams.
Holland (Netherlands)
3807. Vertebrate Anatomy
In contrast to the circulatory system found in mollusks and arthropods, vertebrates have what kind of circulatory system?
closed
3808. Symbols
By 1941, all Jewish people in Germany over the age of six had to wear what symbol in public?
Star of David
3809. Pacific Peoples
Between 1300 and 1000 B.C., what adventurous people moved to New Caledonia, Vanuatu, Fiji, Samoa, and Tonga?
Polynesians
3810. Shocking Fish Facts
What lengthy freshwater fish can produce a shock of hundreds of volts?
electric eel
3811. Athletic Training
In moderate exercise, a balance is finally reached between production of lactic acid and conversion of the acid into glycogen. Athletes refer to this point as their second what?
second wind
3812. Polygons
Geometrically speaking, what can be said about two polygons if these conditions hold true? They have the same number of sides. All corresponding sides are the same length. All corresponding interior angles have the same measures.
They are congruent
3813. Sentence Parts
What is the simple predicate in this sentence? And pulseless and cold, with a Derringer by his side and a bullet in his heart, though still calm as in life, beneath the snow lay he who was at once the strongest and yet the weakest of the
outcasts of Poker Flat.
3814. Revolutions
During the Mexican Revolution, Pancho Villa fought for the rights of the landless in collaboration with another leader of the peasants in south-central Mexico who was eventually assassinated. He was Emiliano who?
Zapata
3815. Astronomical Wonders
The Moon on May 5, 2012 appeared as much as 14% larger and 30% brighter than any other Moon that year. This occurred because the Moon was then at the point nearest to Earth. Name that point.
perigee
3816. Novels
In Jean Craighead George's story, 'One Day in the Alpine Tundra,' a boy spends a day examining the life forms high in what Wyoming mountains south of Yellowstone National Park?
Tetons
3817. Noun Clauses
The noun clause in this sentence is used in apposition with what word? We maintained the hope that the weather would be mild.
hope
3818. Mountains
Near the relatively flat region called the Altiplano is what mountain range?
Andes
3819. Routes
What is the Spanish name for the trail that connected California's 21 missions?
El Camino Real
3820. Speeches
Who broadcast this message in 1944? People of the Philippines. I have returned. By the grace of Almighty God, our forces stand again on Philippine soil, soil consecrated in the blood of our two peoples.
Douglas MacArthur
3821. Contractions
Until around the 1930s, the word 'ain't' was pretty much an acceptable contraction, but today it is considered the mark of an illiterate person. It is a shortened version of what phrase in the first person?
am not (are not, is not, has not)
3822. African Cities
Name the largest city in the vicinity of the Cape of Good Hope.
Cape Town
3823. Weaponry
During the Civil War, what was the name of the projectile shot from a cannon that was packed with many iron balls?
canister (case shot)
3824. Heat Transfer
The water at the very bottom of a pot on a stove is heated by conduction because it is in contact with the pot. But, what other form of energy transfer is involved in heating most of the water?
convection
3825. Reformers
What reformer was the most famous practitioner of nonviolence in India?
Mohandas Gandhi
3826.
What is the interrupter in this example? He replied, 'Anarchy, on the other hand, means no rule and no government and no future.'
on the other hand
3827. Music
The characteristic musical idea which serves as the basis for development of a composition or section of a composition is called the ...
theme (motif)
3828. Etymology
What term for an adventurer involved in a dangerous quest originally referred to someone who sailed with Jason in search of the Golden Fleece?
argonaut
3829. Ancient Commerce
Named for a valuable textile, the ancient network of caravan routes that linked China with India, the Mideast, and the Mediterranean world was known as what road?
Silk Road
3830. Double Dactyls
What body parts complete this double dactyl? Higgledy-piggledy Nicholas Williamson Sat in the bathtub and Scratched at his nose. Seldom was schoolboy so Anthropocentrically Gifted with flexible Bendable ...
toes
3831. Astronomical Middles
The central region of a star, planet, or galaxy is called the ...
core
3832. Minority Literature
What work by James Baldwin contains a letter to his nephew James and an essay about his experiences as an African American growing up in New York's Harlem?
The Fire Next Time
3833. Big Birds
What North American crane is endangered?
whooping crane
3834. Memory Problems
A memory deficit characterized by the inability to learn and remember any information imparted after a traumatic injury is called anterograde what?
amnesia
3835. Planets
Terrestrial planets that reflect less than ten percent of the sunlight striking them lack what?
an atmosphere
3836. Sports Injuries
What is the common name for the condition described by athletes as a pain in the front of the lower leg between the knee and ankle?
shin splints
3837. Artists
What was the nationality of the artist who painted the Mona Lisa?
Italian
3838. Coefficients
What is the numerical coefficient of (6ab)/8c?
6/8
3839. Marsupials
The opossum is the best known marsupial in North America. Name the most common marsupials in Australia.
kangaroos
3840. Shared Nicknames
Wall Street speculator Bernard Baruch and the pilot Charles Lindbergh shared what nickname?
Lone Eagle
3841. Political Philosophy
What word completes this line attributed to Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels? A specter is haunting Europe, the specter of ...
Communism
3842. Short Stories
This is from what Jack London story? High up in the tree one bough capsized its load of snow. This fell on the boughs beneath, capsizing them. This process continued, spreading out and involving the whole tree. It grew like an avalanche, and it descended without warning upon the man and the fire, and the fire was blotted out!
To Build a Fire
3843. Adverbs
What is the relative adverb in this example? My favorite time in Los Angeles is the fall when the wildfires really get started.
when
3844. Musical Grammar
The title for what musical by Lerner and Loewe includes a first-person possessive pronoun, an adjective meaning 'of pleasing appearance,' and a synonym for a well-mannered woman?
My Fair Lady
3845. Glaciers
When meltwater washes rock flour from a glacier, the streams draining the glacier turn what color?
white
3846. The Nazi Military
What in Nazi Germany was the equivalent of the RAF in Britain?
Luftwaffe
3847. Medical Abbreviations
What abbreviation pertains to someone who expires before reaching a medical facility?
DOA
3848. Civil Rights Geography
In what US. state is the Selma to Montgomery Voting Rights Trail?
Alabama
3849. American Government
What is the title of the chief legal officer of the U.S. government?
attorney general
3850. Folklore Associations
What plant is especially associated with leprechauns?
shamrock
3851. The Senate
If all of the U.S. senators are abroad on fact-finding missions except those from states adjacent to the Great Lakes, how many senators are stateside?
16
3852. War Chronology
What international war began during the Mexican Revolution?
World War |
3853. Lines
Mathematicians speak of that portion of a line between and including two specific points as a line ...
segment
3854. Industrial Parts Sources
Name the process of stripping a piece of equipment of serviceable parts to be used in the repair of another machine.
cannibalization (cannibalizing)
3855.
In Eric Campbell's novel, 'Place of Lions,' an airplane crashes in what vast Tanzanian plain west of the Great Rift Valley?
Serengeti
3856. Shipping
Most freighters operate on a fixed schedule but what is the name for those that travel to wherever cargo is available and to wherever it is to be sent?
tramps
3857. Presidential Initiatives
In 1962, President Kennedy announced that he was establishing a naval and air blockade of all offensive weaponry around what island?
Cuba
3858. Chemical Compounds
All sulfate compounds include what two elements?
sulfur, oxygen
3859. Leaders
These people were heads of state of countries on what continent? Nicolae Ceausescu Juan Carlos King Olav Francesco Cossigia Erich Honecker
Europe
3860. Wars
These people and places are all related to what North American war? Edward Braddock, Fort Ticonderoga, James Wolfe, Fort Necessity, Quebec, Fort Niagara, William Pitt, Fort Frontenac
French and Indian War
3861.
What war was largely a stalemated conflict of trench warfare with massive artillery barrages and suicidal infantry attacks against murderous machine gun and rifle crossfire?
World War |
3862. Borrowed Words
From what language do we get the words chow, tea, wok, and won ton?
Chinese
3863. Angle Pairs
What is the total number of degrees in two supplementary angles?
360
3864. Word Analysis
In 'trigonometry,' the prefix 'tri' means three and 'metry' means measurement. What is the meaning of the word element 'gon'?
angle
3865. Sculptures
Gutzon Borglum worked on the massive sculpture at Stone Mountain in Georgia and on what other similar project in the Black Hills of South Dakota?
Mount Rushmore
3866. Art Criticism
An art critic uses what adjective that rhymes with 'hand' to mean 'insipid' or 'dull'?
bland
3867. Dissociative Disorders
Fred, in an amnesiac state, wandered to another city and set up a new life. Ten years later, the amnesia reversed and he awakened in a strange place with a full memory of his original identity but no memory about the previous decade. Name this severe dissociative disorder.
fugue
3868. Invertebrates
Arthropod bodies are usually segmented and covered by an exoskeleton made up of separate plates. What flexible structures between the plates allow the animal to move?
joints
3869. The Ear
What adjective describes the canals in the inner ear associated with balance?
semicircular
3870. Transportation History
What major contribution to colonial transportation was developed in the 1760s by a group of craftsmen in Lancaster, Pennsylvania, living along the Conestoga Creek?
Conestoga wagon
3871. Historic Military Groups
They fought the Saracens to keep the Holy Land for Christianity. They fought in chain mail and white mantles emblazoned with a scarlet cross on the left shoulder. They were the Knights ...
Templar
3872. Crafts
The craftsmen who built a 1/20th version of Howard Hughes' Spruce Goose or a 1/24th version of a Stanley Steamer or a 1/100th version of the Tower of London created what kind of models?
scale models
3873. Tales
This is from what short story? He looked round for his gun, but in place of the clean, well-oiled fowling piece he found an old firelock, the barrel encrusted with rust, the lock falling off and the stock worm-eaten. Wolf, too, had disappeared.
Rip Van Winkle
3874. Free Fall
For a freely falling body at terminal velocity, the force of gravity is equal in magnitude but opposite in direction to the force of ...
friction
3875. Proverbs
Complete this proverb. You never miss the water until the well ...
runs dry
3876. Religious Freedom
English Protestants who would not accept allegiance in any form to the Church of England included the Pilgrims, the Quakers, and the Baptists. These groups that advocated secession from the established church were collectively known as ...
separatists
3877. Archaic Language
What archaic verb is the second person singular present indicative of 'be'?
art
3878. Metaphorical Geography
What is called London's liquid artery?
Thames’ River
3879. Memorials
There is a Lincoln Memorial in what Iowa city that marks the eastern terminus of the transcontinental railroad?
Council Bluffs
3880.
When Congress does not complete its appropriations work by the beginning of the next fiscal year, to keep federal agencies operating in the interim, it may pass what kind of appropriation?
continuing appropriation
3881. Earth's Crust
The two types of crust on the Earth are continental and what other?
oceanic
3882. War Heroes
Presidents Andrew Jackson and William Henry Harrison were military heroes of what war?
War of 1812
3883. Sentences with Infinitives
What kind of objects follow the infinitive in this example? The philanthropist decided to give the Red Cross a donation.
indirect object, direct object
3884. River Discharge
What is the discharge of a river flowing at a mean velocity of 180 feet per minute through a cross sectional area of 80 square feet?
240 cfs
3885. Astronomy
This is about what objects? The most distant objects known are among the most curious and the most energetic. Each of them emits the energy of hundreds of galaxies from a volume far smaller than that of our Milky Way.
quasars
3886. Veggies
What is the collective name for vegetables that include tubers, rhizomes, corms, bulbs, tuberous roots, and tap roots?
root vegetables
3887. Money Algebra
If the total value of x dimes and 2x nickels is $4.80, how many nickels do you have?
48
3888. Elections
In 2009, who did the North Korean parliament elect for another five-year term as their national leader?
Kim Jong-il
3889. 18th-Century Visionaries
What two-word alliterative phrase applies to the men who played major roles in declaring U.S. independence and establishing the Constitution?
Founding Fathers
3890. Documents
What historic document is associated with the man whose personal residence was at Monticello?
Declaration of Independence
3891. Mineral Economies
Two thirds of the world's annual production of 1,500 tons of what metal comes from South Africa?
gold
3892. Petitions
Shortly after King George III rejected the Olive Branch Petition, the Second Continental Congress created what military body?
Continental Army
3893. The 1830s
He said, 'On this subject I do not wish to think or speak or write with moderation. In a cause like the present I will not equivocate - I will not excuse - I will not retreat a single inch.' What was William Lloyd Garrison talking about?
slavery
3894. Drama
Name the member of a theater company responsible for supervising the backstage aspects of a production during rehearsal and performances.
stage manager
3895. Languages
Name either of the two Romance languages common on the Iberian Peninsula.
Portuguese, Spanish
3896. Rulers
What is a collective name for the type of rulers illustrated by these men? Francisco Franco Mustapha Kemal Benito Mussolini Juan Peron Joseph Stalin
dictator (despot, tyrant)
3897. Baseball Physics
Hold a baseball bat hanging down loosely between your thumb and index finger. Have someone begin gently tapping the bat with a hammer, starting at the fat end, and moving toward the handle. You will feel vibration everywhere except at a certain point. This is known as what spot in the bat?
sweet spot
3898. Receptors
What photoreceptors in the retina do not provide as great a degree of resolution as cones do, but are more light-sensitive?
rods
3899. Birds
What kind of feathers are on newly hatched birds?
down
3900. Optical Instruments
What device containing loose beads or bits of colored glass is essentially a cylinder with mirrors that produces symmetrical designs when rotated?
kaleidoscope
3901. The Old West
What animals were moved from Texas to Kansas and Nebraska railroads in the Long Drive?
cattle
3902. Astronomical Altitudes
An object on the observer's horizon is at an altitude of how many degrees?
zero
3903. 2
What is x if 7/x = 1/5?
35
3904. Memorials
Name the national memorial that was erected subsequent to the following. On April 19, 1995, Timothy McVeigh parked a rental truck filled with explosives in front of the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building. The resulting explosion killed 168 people.
Oklahoma City National Memorial
3905. Food History
In what country did goulash first develop?
Hungary
3906. Natural Boundaries
Name the ecological boundary between the tundra and the forest.
tree line (timberline)
3907. Light
Monochromatic light consists of only one color. What kind of light consists of several colors?
polychromatic light
3908. Poetry
A canto in an extended poem corresponds to what subdivision of a novel?
chapter
3909. International Relations
Government actions that affect a nation's relations with other countries, including matters of trade and national security, make up what policy?
foreign policy
3910. Criminals
Along with Bonnie Parker, who was accused of committing twelve murders during a two-year crime spree in the 1930s?
Clyde Barrow
3911. Consumer Anatomy
Creatures in which category of consumers have the greatest number of grinding teeth?
herbivores (primary consumers)
3912. European Demonyms
The people of Venice, Italy, are called what?
Venetians
3913. Symbols
What bird has the same symbolic meaning as the olive branch?
dove
3914. Writing
What figure of speech is illustrated in this line by James Thurber? Why do you have to be a nonconformist like everybody else?
paradox
3915. Fictional Feuds
In what science fiction tale is there a feud between the Harkonnens and the Atreides?
Dune
3916. Inflammations
Viruses, infections, croup, bronchitis, influenza, or even a common cold may cause an inflammation of the voice box called what?
laryngitis
3917. Heroines
After winning the Grand National steeplechase at Aintree, what young heroine objects to all the notoriety, and says The Piebald is a creature of glory who should not be cheapened in tabloid trash and newsreels?
Velvet Brown
3918. Taxonomy
Name two mollusks in the class Bivalvia.
clam, oyster, scallop, cockle, mussel
3919. 2
These novels are all partly set in what country? Climbing the Pyramid Tampico Gold Mission in Cancun Four Days to Veracruz
Mexico
3920. Electricity
What is the term for an electrical connection deliberately made between the earth and a part of an electrical system?
ground
3921. Capitals
A plane flying from Khartoum on a compass heading of 45 degrees would first fly over what body of water?
Red Sea
3922. Conciseness
What three words could be eliminated from this sentence without a loss in meaning? He intended to do some serious soul-searching after the conclusion of the inquest.
the conclusion of
3923. Geometric Lines
The line that divides a plane figure into two congruent parts is called the line of what?
symmetry
3924. 5
In 2012, some 150 runners faced bone-chilling temperatures and rarefied air to compete in the tenth annual Tenzing-Hillary Marathon on what Asian mountain?
Mt. Everest
3925. Chemical Compounds
What family of organic compounds constitutes the major source of energy for the body?
carbohydrates
3926. Solids
What kind of polyhedron has faces that are all identical polygons?
regular polyhedron
3927. Bones
What bone is near the juncture of the femur, tibia, and fibula?
patella
3928. Constitutional Clauses
What words from the preamble to the U.S. Constitution mean to maintain internal peacefulness within a country?
insure domestic tranquillity
3929. Angles
The measure of one of two complementary angles is 18 less than twice the measure of the other. Find the measure of each angle.
36, 54 degrees
3930. Soldier Salaries
Ancient Roman soldiers were paid part of their wages with what substance essential to the diet but which, in excess, may lead to hypertension?
salt
3931. Locus
What is the locus of points created by a log floating such that it is equidistant from the parallel banks of a stream?
a line parallel to banks, midway between
3932. Myths
To whom does the pronoun refer in this line? He left his father, and soared higher, drawn to the vast heaven, nearer the sun, and the wax that held the wings melted in that fierce heat.
Icarus
3933. Archaeology
An eolith is a crude implement made of ...
stone (rock)
3934. Wet Places
The wettest places in the lower 48 states are in what mountain range of western Washington?
Olympic Mountains
3935. Mountain Ranges
The Berkshire, Endless, Cumberland, Great Smoky, and Blue Ridge Mountains are parts of what mountain system?
Appalachians
3936. Sweet Stuff
What substance produced by many plants is the sugar source for honey?
nectar
3937. Loose Chunks
Meteorites are meteors that actually strike the Earth and meteors are chunks of debris that enter Earth's atmosphere. What is the name for millions of objects, smaller than asteroids, that orbit the Sun?
meteoroids
3938. Fishing Hazards
What part of a fishhook caught in the skin makes its removal most difficult?
barb
3939. Figurative Language
What figure of speech is used in this? It hurt the way your tongue hurts after you accidentally staple it to the wall.
simile
3940. Sound
Ultrasound is pitched higher than any human can hear while sound lower than anyone can hear is called ...
infrasound
3941. Art
Samuel Coleridge, Edgar Allan Poe, Oscar Wilde, and many others have argued that the beauty of the fine arts is reason enough for carrying them on. Complete this slogan with that intent. Att for ...
art's sake
3942. Auxiliary Verbs
What is the main verb helped by the final auxiliary verb in this line by Charles Dickens? No one who can read, ever looks at a book, even unopened on a shelf, like one who cannot.
read
3943. Geometric Series
What is the common ratio of the geometric series that begins with these numbers?
3 6 12 24 48
3944. Employment Categories
Except for elected officials, the judiciary, and military personnel, all people employed by a government make up what service?
civil service
3945. Law Enforcement Vocabulary
What legal term means to send an individual back into custody or detention?
remand
3946. One-Sentence Novels
Name the author of the work indicated in this curt synopsis. An ambitious science student creates a human form from cadavers, and then abandons his creation that proceeds to kill everyone in its creator's life.
Mary Shelley
3947. Science Fiction
These lines are from what science fiction story? -Would it save you a lot of time if I just gave up and went mad now? -If there's anything more important than my ego around, I want it caught and shot now. -'Life,' said Marvin dolefully, 'loathe it or ignore it, you can't like it.'
The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy
3948. Inventions
These were invented during what century? steam pump mill-rolled iron power loom hard paste porcelain
18th century
3949. Tsunamis
A huge earthquake in 1946 near the Aleutian island of Unimak produced a wave that covered 2,300 miles in a little more than 4 1/2 hours. To the nearest hundred miles per hour, how fast did this wave travel?
500
3950. Architecture
Name the free part of a horizontal architectural member that projects into space while its other end is anchored in the main structure.
cantilever
3951.
This is from what Jack London story? He was beaten, but he was not broken. He saw, once and for all, that he stood no chance against a man with a club. He had learned the lesson, and in all his after life he never forgot it. That club was a revelation. It was his introduction to the reign of primitive law, and he met the introduction halfway.
The Call of the Wild
3952. Social Systems
An extreme form of social differentiation in which the subgroups that constitute society are ranked in a rigid hierarchical scale is what kind of system?
caste system
3953. 1
During World War I, the Triple Alliance consisted of Germany, Austria-Hungary, and Italy. At the same time, the Triple Entente consisted of Great Britain and what two other nations?
France, Russia
3954.
Located near modern Mosul in Iraq, Nineveh was an ancient Assyrian capital on what river?
Tigris
3955. Memorials
What memorial in Washington D.C. that consists of 56 pillars, 2 arches, a plaza, and a fountain is dedicated to Americans who served their country in the 1940s?
World War II Memorial
3956. Cotton
Cotton plants produce green fruits called what?
bolls
3957. Raw Materials
What is the color of a naturally occurring, hydrocarbon-containing material, bitumen?
black
3958. Big Rivers
What river flows 315 miles southward from the Adirondack Mountains to New York City?
Hudson River
3959. Fields of Science
Name the study of the interactions among different kinds of organisms and between organisms and their physical environment.
ecology
3960. Infinitives
What is the infinitive in this verse? In the hour of darkness and peril and need, The people will awaken and listen to hear The hurrying hoof-beats of that steed, And the midnight message of Paul Revere.
to hear
3961. Angles
What is the complement of a 24-degree angle?
66 degrees
3962. History of Religion
With what religion were these people associated? William Bradford Oliver Cromwell Roger Williams John Winthrop John Milton Anne Hutchinson
Puritanism
3963. Techniques in Art
What art technique is used when the artist makes all the lines darker on one side of his drawing?
shadowing
3964. Cartography
Name the pattern of lines on a chart or map, such as those representing latitude and longitude, used as a reference for locating points.
grid
3965. Biological Classification
To what biological class do vampire bats belong?
Mammalia
3966. 1
The New Kingdom of ancient Egypt was adjacent to what two seas?
Mediterranean, Red
3967. Homeopathy
Homeopathy, for which there is little scientific support, is based on the principle that 'like cures' what?
like
3968. Justice
From a literary point of view, rewarding the good and punishing the bad is what kind of justice?
poetic justice
3969. Wartime Literature
Kate Sherwood's poem, 'Molly Pitcher,' is about what war?
American Revolution (Revolutionary War)
3970. Cracked Spheres
Which sphere of the Earth is cracked into perhaps a score of pieces?
lithosphere
3971. N
In 1948, the United Nations approved a proposal to partition what land into Arab and Jewish states?
Palestine
3972. Land Deals
What treaty signed with Mexico in 1853 permitted the U.S. to acquire a tract of land south of the Gila River?
Gadsden Purchase
3973. Law Vocabulary
What is the term for a petition seeking review of a case that has been decided by a court of law?
appeal
3974. Cycles
In the Old Testament, we find this quote. 'All the rivers run into the sea, yet the sea is not full.' This fact is literally explained by what natural cycle?
hydrologic (water) cycle
3975. Triangles
What is the measure of the each base angle if the vertex angle of an isosceles triangle is 40 degrees?
70 degrees
3976. Zoology
What term can indicate either the elongated mouthpart of flies or the flexible, elongated snout of elephants?
proboscis
3977. Proportions
What two numbers are the extremes in this proportion?
3/5 = 6/10
3978. Space Views
Identify the only living structure on Earth visible from the Moon.
Great Barrier Reef
3979. Legendary Navigators
Christopher Columbus was undoubtedly familiar with the manuscript, 'Navigatio sancti Brendani abbatis,' which suggests that what sixth century Irish saint once sailed to the east coast of North America?
Saint Brendan
3980. Plagues
In 1923, a cloud 300 miles long, 100 miles wide, and a half mile high plagued Montana. What insects composed this cloud that devoured every green blade, leaf, and stalk in its wake?
grasshoppers (locusts)
3981. Winds
Name the side of an island opposite the one facing a persistent wind.
leeward
3982. Explorations
The Dutch navigator Abel Tasman discovered Tasmania and two other islands. These two other islands east of Tasmania now form the nation of ...
New Zealand
3983. The Brain
It is part of the posterior portion of the vertebrate forebrain. Name this organ that contains important centers of the autonomic nervous system and of emotions.
hypothalamus
3984. Oriental Art Forms
Name the Japanese art of formal flower arranging.
ikebana
3985. Journalists
Carl Bernstein and Bob Woodward became famous when they covered what scandal?
Watergate
3986. Particle Physics
What particles are the building blocks of protons and neutrons?
quarks
3987. Literary Characters
What is the literary term for the protagonist in a story who is courageous and admired for brave deeds and noble qualities?
hero (heroine)
3988. South America
What country borders Peru, Bolivia, Argentina, the Drake Passage, and the Pacific Ocean?
Chile
3989. Musical Dynamics
While 'fortississimo' means to play as loudly as possible, what term means to play as softly as possible?
pianissimo
3990. Technology
It originally cost $850 in 1908 when it was introduced, but by 1926, because of efficient manufacturing, the price had dropped to $310 for a version that included a self-starter. Name the vehicle.
Model T
3991. Scientific Variables
If you designed an experiment to see whether massive amounts of vitamin C administered to hamsters would significantly increase their life spans, what would be the independent variable?
vitamin C
3992. Fictional Murders
In what story do sixteen people hear the will of the murdered Samuel Westing and compete to identify the killer in order to earn an enormous reward?
The Westing Game
3993. Military Service
A conscientious objector is a person who refuses to enlist for military service on either moral or ---- grounds.
religious
3994. Entertainment
A synonym for the entertainment industry is show ...
business
3995. Teeth
How many of the adult's 32 permanent teeth are
molars?
3996. Optical Antonyms
What is the opposite of a biconvex lens?
biconcave lens
3997. Expeditions
Popularized by Teddy Roosevelt and Ernest Hemingway, what is the term for overland hunting expeditions in Africa?
safaris
3998. Elections
What adjective indicates an election in which the winning candidate faces no opposition?
uncontested
3999. Authority Abuse
The unnecessary use of force by law enforcement, including shootings and beatings, is called police ...
brutality
4000. Defiant Quotes
What prime minister said this in 1940? Hitler knows that he will have to break us on this island or lose the war. If we can stand up to him, all Europe may be free and the life of the world may move forward into broad, sunlit uplands.
Winston Churchill
4001. 19th-Century Nations
Who organized and became first president of the North American independent nation called the State of Deseret?
Brigham Young
4002. Stephen Foster
What are the first words of the verse that continues as follows? ... wake unto me. Starlight and dewdrop are waiting for thee
Beautiful Dreamer
4003. Executive Problems
What American president laid the problem of the Korean invasion before the Security Council of the United Nations?
Harry Truman
4004. Roman Architecture
The ancient Roman aqueducts repeatedly incorporated what distinctive architectural structure?
arch
4005. Antipodes
What is the longitude and latitude of the antipode of 90 degrees east and 30 degrees north?
90 degrees west, 30 degrees south
4006. Folksongs
What is Molly crying in this song? In Dublin's fair city Where girls are so pretty 'Twas there I first met with Sweet Molly Malone She drove a wheelbarrow Through streets broad and narrow Crying ...
cockles and mussels
4007. Canada
What central Canadian province is adjacent to Nunavut, Hudson Bay, and Ontario?
Manitoba
4008. Consecutive Integers
The sum of two consecutive even integers is 258. What is the larger integer?
130
4009. Presidents
What U.S. president immediately preceded Dwight Eisenhower?
Harry Truman
4010. Neap Tides
During neap tides, high tides are at their lowest and low tides are at their ...
highest
4011. 3
The Central Valley of California is between the Coast Ranges and what mountain range to the east?
Sierra Nevada
4012. Gears
On a gear, what is the term for the distance between a point on one tooth and the corresponding point on an adjacent tooth?
pitch
4013. Batteries
Which terminal of a battery has more protons than electrons?
positive terminal
4014. Philosophy
What school of philosophy states that knowledge is derived from experience and experiment rather than from theory?
empiricism
4015. Animal Symmetry
What kind of symmetry does the octopus have?
bilateral symmetry
4016. Painting
In what form of artistic painting are pigments suspended in a water-soluble vehicle?
watercolor
4017. Lyrical Grammar
These lines from a Bob Dylan song illustrate what kind of question? How many seas must a white dove sail before she sleeps in the sand? How many times must the cannon balls fly before they're forever banned?
rhetorical
4018. Egypt
Identify Egypt's second-largest city founded in 332 B.C. which is a center for manufacturing, cotton, and exports.
Alexandria
4019. Scandinavia
Which Scandinavian country extends farthest north?
Norway
4020. Symmetry
Zoologists use three terms to describe the three types of animal symmetry including asymmetrical, bilateral, and ...
radial
4021. Australian History
Between 1788 and 1900 what disease was the single major cause of Australian Aboriginal deaths?
smallpox
4022. Saturation
Achromatic colors have zero saturation while the saturation of chromatic colors is expressed as values between what two numbers?
Q)°1
4023. Offenses
What military crime is defined as a prolonged absence without leave when a soldier has no intention of returning to duty?
desertion
4024. Light
What adjective indicates a substance through which light only travels diffusely?
translucent
4025. The Shrinking World
At the beginning of the 19th century, Mumbai, India was 12,000 miles by sea from London. But, in 1869, that distance was reduced to 7000 miles when what important construction project was completed?
Suez Canal
4026. Aquatic Valuables
In some bivalves, a foreign object such as a grain of sand becomes lodged between the mantle and the shell. To reduce the irritation, the mantle secretes calcium bicarbonate around it, forming what gem?
pearl
4027. The American Dream
The old American dream involved the accumulation of a modest fortune, a little at a time, year by year. Then, the new American dream was instant wealth, won in a twinkling by audacity and good luck. This new dream became a prominent part of the American psyche only after a 19th-century discovery at whose mill?
Sutter's Mill
4028. History of Law
What ancient Babylonian king had his laws inscribed in stone so that they were, in effect, immutable?
Hammurabi
4029. Perspiration
The main purpose of sweating is temperature control, more properly known as what kind of regulation?
thermoregulation
4030. Seasonal Activities
Estival behavior occurs during what season?
summer
4031. Biomes
What biome is in these regions? central Australia northern Africa southwest North America
desert
4032. World History
Name the political party behind the construction of facilities at Sobibor, Dachau, and Auschwitz.
Nazi (National Socialist)
4033. Scandinavian Peoples
The Sami are the indigenous, nomadic, herding people of northern Norway, Sweden, Finland, and the Kola Peninsula. What is another name for them?
Lapps (Laplanders)
4034. Burning
The ignition temperature is the lowest temperature at which a substance burns. The highest temperature reached during burning is called the temperature of what?
combustion
4035. 2
This describes what spectacular falls? Plunging uninterrupted for 807 meters from a mystical tabletop mountain deep in the Venezuelan equatorial rainforest, it is widely acknowledged as the tallest permanent waterfall in the world.
Angel Falls
4036. Forms of Journalism
What kind of journalism requires a great deal of research and hard work to discover facts that may be hidden or obscured by people with a vested interest in keeping those facts from the public?
investigative journalism
4037. Rivers of Antiquity
If you were an ancient riverboatman and you left Abu Simbel in Nubia, traveled downriver past Luxor and Karnak, and then past Memphis and Giza, in what cardinal direction would you be heading?
north
4038. International Criticism
In a vote in 1963, the United Nations unanimously censured what nation for its policy of apartheid?
South Africa
4039. News Quotes
What name completes this excerpt from a 1963 news story? Meantime, a recently fired rifle was found on the sixth floor of the book depository, a room with a clear view down Elm Street. Ownership of the rifle was quickly traced to ...
Lee Harvey Oswald
4040. Electricity
A wire wound round a solid tubular object is called a
coil (winding)
4041. Landforms
When polyps die, their hard shells remain and more polyps grow on top of them. Eventually, what landform develops?
reef (atoll)
4042. The Armada
The great Spanish Armada was met by the English fleet in 1588 in the English Channel and the Strait of
Dover
4043. Sports
This jargon is part of what sport? hook shots divots links
golf
4044. Capitals
Mogadishu and Dar es Salaam are the capitals of African countries adjacent to what body of water?
Indian Ocean
4045. Trapezoids
The parallel sides of a trapezoid are called bases while the nonparallel sides are called ...
legs
4046. Twain
This is from what story by Mark Twain? We said there warn't no home like a raft, after all. Other places do seem so cramped up and smothery, but a raft don't. You feel mighty free and easy and comfortable on a raft.
Huckleberry Finn
4047. Speeches
Who said this in a speech? I have never been a quitter. To leave office before my term is completed is abhorrent to every instinct in my body. But as president, I must put the interests of America first. American needs a full-time president and a full-time Congress.
Richard Nixon
4048. Civil War Commanders
What commander of the Army of the Potomac, whose troops were soundly defeated at the Battle of Fredericksburg, had unusual whiskers which, instead of forming a beard, were only thick at the sides of his face?
Ambrose Burnside
4049.
In 1940, the U.S. agreed to send Britain 50 over-age destroyers in exchange for rights to construct bases in the West Indies. This marked the beginning of what agreement with the Allies?
Lend-Lease
4050. Gases
What gas is about twice as buoyant as helium?
hydrogen
4051. Space Exploration
In spacecraft, what is the name for a chamber between the flight deck and the vacuum of space that is used by crew members when beginning or returning from space walks?
air lock
4052. Coming-of-Age Novels
Central to what novel are the Book of Shaker, a boy mauled by a neighbor's cow, a Vermont farm, and the gift of a newborn pig?
A Day No Pigs Would Die
4053. Commerce of the Middle Ages
Their value at the time was greater than that of gold or jewels. Identify these edible substances carried from India or the Moluccas to Europe during the Medieval period.
spices
4054. Geographical Homonyms
A country of north-central Africa and a small piece of paper generated by a voter punching a hole in a ballot share what name?
chad
4055. Agriculture
A building designed to receive, store, clean, mix, and dispense grain is called a grain what?
elevator
4056. Water Properties
What in oceanography is equivalent to specific gravity and represents the ratio of the weight of a given volume of sea water to that of an equal volume of distilled water?
density
4057. Short Stories
The story by Kurt Vonnegut that opens in the year 2081 when everybody was finally equal is entitled 'Harrison ...'
Bergeron
4058. U
What state is immediately north of the state in which these cities are located? Peoria Kankakee Champaign Quincy
Wisconsin
4059. Etymology
The term 'derringer' comes from Henry Deringer and the word 'mausoleum' comes from King Mausolus. Such words that originate from the names of people are called ...
eponyms
4060. Cinema
What is the title of the person responsible for negotiating contracts on behalf of an actor?
agent (manager)
4061. Legal Principles
The concept that no individual or group may receive special privileges nor be unjustly discriminated against by the law is called equal ---- of the law.
protection
4062. Sculpture Geology
The faces of four American presidents are carved into what coarse-grained igneous rock at Mount Rushmore?
granite
4063. Food Etymology
The term, Buffalo wings, comes from the name of a city in which they originated. That city is in what state?
New York
4064. Revolutionary Hardships
The Continental Army camped in Valley Forge, Pennsylvania during the winter spanning what two years?
1777-1778
4065. The Sun
What term derived from the Latin word for crown indicates the luminous envelope of ionized gases surrounding the Sun that is visible during eclipses?
corona
4066. Supranationalism
Latvia, Portugal, Malta, Ireland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, and Sweden are among the members of what international group of 27 states?
European Union
4067. Parody
This is a parody of what poem? He killed the noble Mudjokivis. Of the skin he made him mittens, Made them with the fur side inside, Made them with the skin side outside. He, to get the warm side inside, Put the inside skin side outside.
Hiawatha
4068. Sculpture
Which of the four main methods a sculptor uses to achieve a desired form is missing from this list? assembly, carving, modeling
welding
4069. Anthropology
What term do anthropologists use for any people whose adult men grow to less than five feet in average height?
pygmy
4070. Bandages
You can make what kind of bandage by diagonally cutting in half a piece of cloth 40 inches square?
triangular bandage
4071. Zoology
What category of teeth are particularly conspicuous when you face a snarling dog?
canines
4072. People
Complete this title of a biography. The Greatest Showman on Earth: A Biography of ...
P.T. Barnum
4073. Cities
These cities are in what state? Venice Chattahoochee Sarasota Naples
Florida
4074.
What word should have been used in this line? Listen to the blabbing brook.
babbling
4075. Weapon Science
What hand-held weapon is a simple machine called a two-armed spring?
bow (as in bow and arrow)
4076. Asian Islands
What island is at the intersection of the East China Sea, the Philippine Sea, and the South China Sea?
Taiwan
4077. Medieval Guilds
In what material did a medieval artist work who was a member of the 'Arte di Pietra' guild?
stone (rock)
4078. Algebraic Expressions
If the ages of four dogs are three consecutive even integers and the youngest dog is p + 3 years old, how
old is the oldest dog?
4079. Presidents
Kansas was the home state of what U.S. president?
Dwight Eisenhower
4080. Weapons
In the Battle of Crecy in 1346, what weapon enabled 20,000 English archers to defeat some 60,000 French soldiers?
longbow
4081. Ancient Cities
What great city was selected to be the capital of the Roman Empire by Emperor Constantine?
Byzantium (Constantinople)
4082.
What adjective describes the light transmitting ability of materials such as waxed paper, frosted glass, gauze, and mica?
translucent
4083. Medical Advances
In the 19th century, Rudolf Virchow demonstrated that all body organs are made of tissues and all tissues are made of what structures?
cells
4084. Military Decorations
The Iron Cross is to Germany as the Victoria Cross is to what nation?
Great Britain (England)
4085. Monarch's Wives
What are the correct names for the two misstated in this line? Two of Henry VIII's wives were Catherine the Arrogant and Anne of Cloves.
Catherine of Aragon, Anne of Cleves
4086. Anniversaries
In 2012, the city of San Francisco celebrated the 75th anniversary of what bridge?
Golden Gate Bridge
4087. Work Problems
Orvis can build a duck blind in 4 hours and Zeke can do the same job in 6 hours. How long would it take both of them working together to build the blind?
24 hours (2 hours 24 minutes)
4088. Impeachment
What fraction of the U.S. Senate is required in a vote for conviction in impeachment trials?
two-thirds
4089. Jargon
In medical jargon, 'a therapeutic misadventure' or 'a diagnostic misadventure of high magnitude' is a euphemism for medical ...
malpractice
4090. Sandstone
You chip off the surface layer of some reddish sandstone and find the sandstone beneath to be cream colored. This indicates that what type of chemical weathering has taken place?
oxidation
4091. Telegraphy
The first successful telegraph in the U.S. was invented by whom?
Samuel Morse
4092. Chef's Surprise
While cleaning out your fridge for the first time in ten months, you open a container and find what was once some kind of food is now covered with a furry growth. Name it.
mold (mildew)
4093. Big Arid Places
What desert stretches more than 3,500 miles from the Atlantic Ocean to the Red Sea?
Sahara
4094. Funky Proverbs
How is this proverb usually stated? A feathered biped in the phalanges is equal to two of the same in the shrubbery.
A bird in the hand ...
4095. Records
Ancient manuscripts discovered between 1946 and 1956 in West Bank caves are called the Dead Sea ...
Scrolls
4096. Transportation
What is the New York equivalent of the London Tube?
subway
4097. Boat Rentals
Beanie and Cecil rent a boat for a total cost of $300.00. Beanie used it for 18 days and Cecil used it for 36 days. How much should Beanie pay for his share of the rent?
$100.00
4098. Residents
Anyone not a citizen of the country in which he or she lives is an ...
alien
4099. Poets
What American poet, 'the bard of democracy,' extolled the average man and the uniqueness of the individual in works such as these? Democratic Vistas Pioneers! O Pioneers! The Song of the Broad Axe
Walt Whitman
4100. Energy
What fuel is a combination of alcohol and gasoline?
gasohol
4101. Sports
Dislocations are common among football, boxing, and hockey players. These competitive activities illustrate what category of sports involving physical contact between players as a normal part of the game?
contact sports
4102. Dinner on a Budget
Ellie is going to dinner. She has exactly $30 and must leave a 15% tip. To the nearest dollar, how much is the most expensive meal she could buy?
$26
4103. Comparative Adjectives
To make the comparative form of two-syllable adjectives ending in 'y,' you should replace the 'y
with what three letters?
4104. Vegetables
These are varieties of what kind of vegetables? acorn, butternut, summer, pumpkin, hubbard, buttercup, zucchini
squash
4105. Mollusks
Various mollusks line their shells with mother of ...
pearl
4106. Ancient Rulers
This is about whom? Although queen of Egypt, she was a Greek, one of the Ptolemaic Dynasty that assumed the throne in Egypt after the death of Alexander the Great.
Cleopatra
4107. Comparative Anatomy
In relation to their size, what broad category of animals have the largest eyes?
birds
4108. On the Brink
The world's closest brush with nuclear war occurred in 1962. Name this crisis involving Nikita Khrushchev and John Kennedy.
Cuban missile crisis
4109. Water Treatment
There is practically no chance of an outbreak of cholera if water is treated with the proper amount of what greenish, gaseous halogen?
chlorine
4110. European Rivers
The headwaters of the three largest rivers that flow through Portugal are all in what country?
Spain
4111. Equations
If 5/8x = 20, what is x?
32
4112. Respiration
What behavior leading to a lowered concentration of carbon dioxide in your blood may involve either breathing at an abnormally fast rate or breathing more deeply than normal?
hyperventilation
4113. Historical Chemical Limericks
What word completes this ditty? Le Chatelier's life was a mess All his actions were under duress. He thought, 'I must Make the system adjust To get rid of some external ...'
stress
4114. Machines
A combination of two or more simple machines is what kind of machine?
compound machine
4115. Controlled Substances
What commonly abused controlled substance is a diuretic, vasodilator, and dehydrator?
alcohol
4116. Matter
The aurora borealis and ball lightning are examples of what phase of matter?
plasma
4117. Relationships
Levi is Sarah's brother. Naomi is Levi's sister. How is Naomi related to Sarah?
She is Sarah's sister.
4118. First Meetings
In its first meeting in 1960, what organization then consisting of just Saudi Arabia, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, and Qatar forced a retraction of the decrease in oil prices by Standard Oil of New Jersey, which had unilaterally rolled back prices by 4 cents to 14 cents per barrel?
OPEC
4119. Puns
What word is used as a pun in this observation by James Thurber? American college students are like American colleges - each has half-dulled faculties.
faculties
4120. Courts
Tangible objects and personal testimonies presented in a courtroom to support or refute an allegation are collectively known as what?
evidence
4121. Fallbacks
In 1940, every available ship and boat in England was ordered to what site to help evacuate some 340,000 men across the English Channel?
Dunkirk
4122. Taxation Without Representation
In 1767, the British Parliament passed the Townsend Acts that imposed taxes on lead, glass, paint, paper, and tea. This superceded what other despised law, repealed in 1766, that had taxed licenses, almanacs, playing cards, and legal documents?
Stamp Act
4123. Glands
Most tetrapod vertebrates, including humans, possess how many pairs of parathyroid glands?
two
4124. Clauses
Aside from being a dependent clause, what kind of clause is the last one in this line by Theodore Roosevelt? Do what you can, with what you have, where you are.
adverb clause
4125. Historical Drivers
What was the title of the person responsible for steering the large sailing vessels of the 18th and 19th centuries?
helmsman (quartermaster, wheelman)
4126. Polygon Perimeters
What is the length of each side of a pentagon whose perimeter is 41.5 centimeters?
8.3 centimeters
4127. Riverside States
Name either of the two states directly across the Mississippi River from Iowa.
Wisconsin, Illinois
4128. Newspaper Geography
These are newspapers of what state? Muskegon Chronicle Flint Journal Kalamazoo Gazette Saginaw News Lansing State Journal
Michigan
4129. Special Privileges
Recipients of what award for service in the U.S. military have these privileges? -a supplemental uniform allowance -eligibility for internment at Arlington National Cemetery -eligibility of recipient's children for admission to U.S. military academies -invitation to all presidential inaugurations
Medal of Honor
4130. Botany
Poison ivy and bittersweet grow as shrubs when support is not available, but when it is, they grow as what?
vines
4131. Legal Documents
What document issued by a judicial official directs a law enforcement officer to arrest an individual accused of a specific offense?
warrant
4132. Organ Afflictions
Rheumatic fever affects the valves of the ...
heart
4133. Governmental Branches
A town council is part of which branch of government?
legislative
4134. Sentence Analysis
What are the predicate nominatives in this line? A predicate nominative is a noun or pronoun which follows the verb and describes or renames the subject.
noun, pronoun
4135. The Chain of Command
In the Department of Defense, who has more power than the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff?
Secretary of Defense
4136. Novels
In this story by Judy Blume, Sybil Davison develops a relationship with a boy. They promise they will love each other forever, but forever only lasts until the summer, when she heads off to be a camp counselor where she finds another boy. Name the book.
Forever
4137. Missionaries
Father Damien is noted for his care of people with leprosy who had been forcibly segregated on which of the Hawaiian islands?
Molokai
4138. Demonyms
What demonym corresponds with the name, Europe?
European
4139. Nucleotides
Which is last on an alphabetical list of the four bases in DNA nucleotides?
thymine
4140. Glaciation
What kind of glacial deposit is Long Island in New York?
(terminal, end) moraine
4141. Carbohydrates
What complex insoluble carbohydrate is the main constituent of the cell wall in most plants?
cellulose
4142. Giving Up Rights
A voluntary, intentional surrender of any right or privilege is called a ...
waiver
4143. Monsters
Name the nine-headed monster slain by Hercules in the marsh of Lerna.
Hydra
4144. Metamorphic Rock
What two categories of rock can become metamorphic rock?
igneous, sedimentary
4145. Space Nonfiction
Complete this title of the true story of seven astronauts who traveled 4.4 million miles to repair a telescope. Adventure in Space: The Flight to Fix the ...
Hubble (or HST or Hubble Space Telescope)
4146. Mountain Vocabulary
Located in the transition zone between plains and mountains, what is the name for those hills that gradually increase in elevation at the base of a mountain range?
foothills
4147. 20th-Century Fighting
This is about what conflict? Neither side gained more than several hundred yards of territory over the course of years of trench warfare.
World War |
4148. Voice
In what grammatical voice is this example? Her usually passive voice became especially active whenever she passed the American Action Committee's past headquarters.
active
4149. The Earth
While Earth's equatorial circumference is 7927 miles, what circumference of Earth is 7899 miles?
polar circumference
4150. Poetic Quotes
From what poem were these lines taken? At length did cross an albatross through the fog it came. As if it had been a Christian soul we hailed it in God's name.
Rime of the Ancient Mariner
4151.
Simplify this expression. 3p - 6(4- Sp)
33p - 24
4152. Work
Expressed in joules, how much work is done in lifting a 4-newton stone 2 meters?
8 joules
4153. Sunlight
Name the rays of sunlight that seem to radiate through gaps in clouds from a point in the sky where the Sun is located.
crepuscular rays
4154. Musical Instruments
What woodwind instrument associated with Dixieland music was played by Benny Goodman?
clarinet
4155. Fantasies
Which of Tolkien's books begins with this? When Mr. Bilbo Baggins of Bag End announced that he would shortly be celebrating his eleventy-first birthday with a party of special magnificence, there was much talk and excitement in Hobbiton.
The Fellowship of the Ring
4156. Prejudice
Anti-Semitism is prejudice against what people?
Jews (Semites)
4157. Explorers
What Englishman reached northern California in 1579 during his circumnavigation of the world?
Francis Drake
4158. Music Notation
On sheet music, notes for a pitch beyond the range of the five-line staff are represented by what lines?
ledger lines
4159. Library Science
Books such as 'Don't Know Much about History' and 'An Illustrated Outline History of Mankind' would be given numbers between what values in the Dewey Decimal System?
900-999
4160. Labor History
Membership in the Knights of Labor began to decline immediately after a bomb exploded in what Chicago square in 1886?
Haymarket Square
4161. Ichthyology
A shark must swim continuously to avoid sinking because it lacks what organ present in most other fish?
swim bladder
4162. European Lakes
Lake Constance separates Germany and Austria from what other country?
Switzerland
4163. Around the World
Juan Sebastian Elcano actually completed the first circumnavigation of the globe after what original leader of the expedition was killed in the Philippines?
Ferdinand Magellan
4164. Revolutionary Leaders
Who was nineteen, French, and the youngest major general in the American Revolution?
Lafayette
4165. Poetry
In the poem by Ella Wheeler Wilcox, you weep alone if you weep, but what happens if you laugh?
the world laughs with you
4166. Ruined Receptions
Philip of Macedon was assassinated at his daughter's wedding in 336 B.C. Name the 20-year-old son who succeeded him.
Alexander
4167. 2
What type of singular pronoun is illustrated in this quip? The closest anyone ever comes to perfection is on a job application form.
indefinite
4168. Pressure
In newtons per square meter, what is the pressure on a 2 square meter surface being pushed with a force of
12 newtons?
4169. Ecology
Rarely consisting of more than six levels because the amount of energy passed on diminishes at each stage, what is the phrase for a food pathway that links different species in a community?
food chain
4170. South America
What South American country was named after a nationalist leader known as the Liberator?
Bolivia
4171. Biographies
What surname completes this title of a biography? The Heroine of the Titanic: A Tale Both True and Otherwise of the Life of Molly ...
Brown
4172. Angles
What kind of angle is formed by the hands of a clock when it is 6 p.m.?
straight angle
4173. The Mediterranean
These are districts on what Mediterranean island? Limassol, Paphos, Kyrenia, Lamarca, Famagusta, Nicosia
Cyprus
4174. Corporate Anagrams
'No wire unsent' is an anagram for what major communications corporation?
Western Union
4175. Historical Documents
This is from a document written in what year? But, when a long train of abuses and usurpations, pursuing invariably the same object, evinces a design to reduce them under absolute despotism, it is their right, it is their duty, to throw off such government and to provide new guards for their future security.
1776
4176. Theater
Broadway is the principal professional theater district in what city?
New York City
4177. Fictional Facilities
What kind of fictional buildings are these? Anvard in 'The Horse and His Boy' The Hornburg in 'The Lord of the Rings' Marlinspike in 'The Adventures of Tintin' Hogwarts in the Harry Potter series Aaarrggh! in 'Monty Python and the Holy Grail'
castles
4178. Figures of Speech
What figure of speech is used in the last three words of this example? 'Whom' is a word that was invented to make everyone sound like a butler.
simile
4179. Negative Exponents
Solve this equation for x. x squared + 5=y
x = (y-5) to the 1/2 power
4180. Deposition
In what household appliance can water vapor be transformed directly into a solid?
freezer (refrigerator freezer)
4181. Matter
Which phase of matter is described either as amorphous or crystalline?
solid
4182. 4
What is the collective name for bodies such as national assemblies, parliaments, councils, and congresses?
legislatures
4183. Thinking Green
Substances that can be broken down by microorganisms into simple, stable compounds such as carbon dioxide and water are described by what adjective?
biodegradable
4184. Geology
In ten million years, part of California will be out at sea, Florida will join South America, and Africa will move farther away from Europe. The phenomenon responsible for these movements is continental ...
drift
4185. Politics
What is the term for these kinds of groups in the U.S. Democratic Party? Progressive Democrats Liberal Democrats Conservative Democrats African American Democrats Union Democrats Muslim Democrats Hispanic Democrats :
factions
4186. Flying
What is the term for the lateral inward tilting of an aircraft in a turn?
banking
4187. Ecological Concepts
What is the term for any organism that brings energy into an ecosystem from inorganic sources?
producer (autotroph)
4188. American Banners
Symbolizing the spirit of '76 is the yellow Gadsden flag with the words, 'Don't Tread on Me' and a depiction of what animal?
rattlesnake
4189. City Planners
Who laid out the grid pattern for the streets of 'the city of brotherly love'?
William Penn
4190. Tall Tales
The name of what character of American folklore is missing in this tale? Andrew, a Boston man, came to New Mexico for a visit. He fancied himself a cowboy and wore lizard skin boots, a shiny brass belt buckle, new jeans, and a huge ten-gallon hat. When ---- saw Andrew, he just lay down and laughed himself to death!
Pecos Bill
4191. Number Problems
If two numbers are represented as x and (x+5), what is the larger number if their sum is 3 less than three times the smaller number?
13
4192. Ecological Transformations
Deforestation, overgrazing, or drought often lead to the transformation of usable land into desert or semidesert, a process called ...
desertification
4193. Wildlife
What is another name for the javelina?
peccary
4194. Prisons
What prison system established under Stalin's regime was given worldwide attention through the writings of Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn?
gulag
4195. Fictional Ships
These fictional ships appear in a series of works by C.S. Forester featuring what Royal Navy officer? HMS Justinian HMS Indefatigable Marie Galante HMS Marguerite HMS Renown HMS Retribution
Horatio Hornblower
4196. Standards
In 1792, at Hamilton's encouragement, a bi-metallic standard was adopted in the U.S. This standard was based on what two metals?
gold, silver
4197. Straits
After 1610, practically all expeditions in search of the Northwest Passage entered Arctic waters through what strait named for a lost English navigator?
Hudson Strait
4198. Puns
According to the pun, what kind of envelope should you use if you send a letter to the capital of the Philippines?
Manila envelope
4199. Drama
Elizabethan drama is associated with what country?
England
4200. Ballet Music
Peter Tchaikovsky composed music for 'The Nutcracker' and what two other ballets?
Swan Lake, Sleeping Beauty
4201. Abbreviations
The same letters used in the postal abbreviation for the 'Show Me' state are also used in the abbreviation of what metallic chemical element?
molybdenum
4202. Peace During Wartime
Derived from the Latin terms 'arma' meaning 'weapons' and 'statium' meaning 'stopping,' what is the term for a truce or temporary cessation of hostilities during wartime?
armistice
4203. Marches
Composed by John Philip Sousa, 'Semper Fidelis' is the official march of what branch of the U.S. military?
Marines
4204. Composers
In Westminster Abbey, there is a monument showing a composer in front of his desk on which rests the open score of the 'Messiah' with 'I know that my Redeemer liveth.' Who is buried there?
George Frideric Handel
4205. Amphibians
Most amphibians have toes that end in what structures made of keratin?
claws
4206. Territorial Acquisition
Name the war which eventually enabled the U.S. to acquire Guam and Puerto Rico.
Spanish-American War
4207. Rationalizing Denominators
Rationalize the denominator in this example. (2 times the square root of 3) / (5 times the square root of 2)
(square root of 6)/5
4208. Football
What football violation occurs when the 25-second clock expires before the ball is snapped?
delay of game
4209. Composers
He came from a family in which more than fifty were musicians. Name this composer who worked at St. Thomas! Church, married twice, and had twenty children.
Johann Sebastian Bach
4210. Colonial Colonies
The Popham colony in Maine was established in 1607, but did not survive the harsh winters there. What successful colony was also established in that year?
Jamestown
4211. Animals
These terms relate to what kind of animals? lateral lines roe milt
fish
4212. Injuries
What organ is affected in retinal detachment?
eye
4213. Hot Spots
In 1913, the highest air temperature ever recorded was 134 degrees F at Furnace Creek Ranch in what U.S. valley?
Death Valley
4214. Algebraic Factoring
Factor 3y + 6.
3(y+2)
4215. Art Forms
What art form can be described as a kinetic sculpture in which balanced parts capable of motion are hung freely in space such that they never come into contact with each other?
mobile
4216. Censorship
Name the method of television and radio censorship in which verbal profanity is replaced by a 1000 hertz sound.
bleeping
4217. Ship Stops
What is the name for mooring locations along a wharf or pier?
berths
4218. Epitaphs
In his epitaph, Shakespeare warned that what would happen to anyone who tampered with his remains?
He would be cursed.
4219. Handling the Dead
In what kind of facility are human corpses temporarily stored awaiting identification, removal for autopsy, or disposal?
morgue (mortuary)
4220. Neurons
What part of a neuron could be compared to an antenna that receives signals?
dendrite
4221. Motion
A tire rolling across a flat surface eventually stops. What force aside from gravity slows it down?
friction
4222. Hydrocarbons
Unsaturated hydrocarbons contain one or more pairs of carbon atoms joined by double or triple chemical bonds. What kind of hydrocarbons contain carbon atoms joined by single chemical bonds?
saturated
4223. Trite Sayings
What word completes this cliche? conspicuous by its ...
absence
4224. Atmospheric Phenomena
It is usually red, orange, or yellow. It can be as small as a grapefruit or as big as a pumpkin. After briefly hovering above the ground or darting wildly about, the orb fizzles out or ends with a bang. Name this form of lightning.
ball lightning
4225. Etymology
What term for the murder of some six million Jews, along with millions of others, comes from two Greek words meaning 'race' and 'killing'?
genocide
4226. Free Public Education
In 1860, there were only 100 public high schools in the entire United States. By 1900, that number reached 6000, an increase of what percentage?
5900%
4227. Native Americans
The Papago and Hopi Indian reservations are in what state?
Arizona
4228. Horticulturists
George Washington Carver came up with 100 uses for sweet potatoes, 60 uses for pecans, and 325 uses for what legume?
peanuts
4229. Gases
What atmospheric gas absorbs wavelengths of ultraviolet radiation longer than those absorbed by nitrogen and oxygen?
ozone
4230. Puns
What word is used as a pun in this line? I tried to resist his overtures, but he plied me with symphonies, chamber music, and cantatas.
overtures
4231. Federal Agencies
These are agencies of what branch of American government? National Economic Council Council of Environmental Quality Office of Management and Budget Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy
Executive Branch
4232. Oceania
What Pacific island visited by Samuel Wallis, James Cook, and William Bligh and annexed by France in 1880 was written about by Robert Louis Stevenson and inspired paintings by Paul Gauguin?
Tahiti
4233. Proportion
Phil's jalopy averages 15 miles per gallon. Given a cost of $1.20 per gallon, what will be the fuel cost for a 750 mile trip?
$60
4234. Thrust
In the 17th century, what English scientist explained the basic principle by which modern jet engines propel aircraft?
Isaac Newton
4235. Plant Reproduction
Horticulturists use pieces of stems, leaves, and roots to form new plants. Name these pieces of plants to be planted.
cuttings
4236. Reform Tactics
What principle of Gandhi's political theory was reflected in these words by Martin Luther King? We cannot solve the problem through retaliatory violence. We must love our white brothers no matter what they do to us.
nonviolence
4237.
Name either U.S. president who unsuccessfully tried to win third terms.
Ulysses Grant, Theodore Roosevelt
4238. Bearings
A plane flying on a bearing of 45 degrees is flying in what direction?
northeast
4239. Bad Veggies
What is the probable result of eating a plate of any of these plants? foliage from a cherry tree jimsonweed thododendrons yews
death
4240. Suggestions
What kind of a suggestion is given to a person during hypnosis to be acted on later when the person is no longer hypnotized?
posthypnotic
4241. Pirates
Edward Teach, better known as Blackbeard, is remembered for conducting piracy around what extensive North American island group?
West Indies
4242. Poetic Excerpts
Name the poet who wrote these lines. I wanted the gold and I sought it I scrubbed and mucked like a slave.
Robert Service
4243. Speeches
John Kennedy included these words in a speech about what goal for America? No single space project in this period will be more impressive to mankind, or more important for the long-range exploration of space, and none will be so difficult or expensive to accomplish.
landing a man on the Moon
4244. Anthropological Finds
Fossil remains of what humanoid were found in Zhoukoudian Cave in 1927?
Peking man
4245. Burning
The process by which the burning of a fuel is initiated is called ...
ignition
4246.
Evidence of indisputable guilt is indicated by the phrase, 'smoking ...'
gun
4247. Theories
These three theories refer to the origin of what heavenly body? capture theory double-planet theory satellite theory
the Moon
4248. Weird Relationships
As if it was not enough that Bella Swan's friend in 'Twilight' turns out to be a vampire, in 'New Moon,' this time her new boyfriend turns out to be what other kind of legendary being?
werewolf
4249. Bygone People
These people lived in what city-state? Phidias Pericles Euripides Socrates
Athens
4250. Industrial Fishing
The harvesting of a fish to a point where it cannot reproduce itself in significant numbers is called what kind of fishing?
overfishing
4251. Mideast Leaders
What Middle East leader was called the Butcher of Baghdad?
Saddam Hussein
4252. Telescopes
What category of telescopes uses one or more polished, curved mirrors to gather light and concentrate it at a focal point?
reflector (reflecting telescope)
4253. An Italian's Point of View
What is the nationality of the people referred to in this quote by Benito Mussolini? These men are not made of the same stuff as the Francis Drakes and the other magnificent adventurers who made the empire. They, after all, are the tired sons of a long line of rich men and they will lose their empire.
British (English)
4254. Symptoms
A person in a febrile state has what?
a fever
4255. Plane Figures
What geometric shape contains the greatest area in proportion to its perimeter?
circle
4256. Wounds
What kind of dense connective tissue forms over a healing wound?
scar tissue
4257. Navigation Inventions
The invention of three instruments permitted 15th-century navigators to make longer voyages and to venture far from coastlines. These included the compass, telescope, and what other device?
astrolabe
4258. Fruits
What fruit has a high food value, being about 54 percent sugar and 7 percent protein, and is of special importance to desert peoples of North Africa and the Middle East?
dates
4259. Island Locations
What island that is almost halfway around the world from Greenwich, England and one-third of the way from Honolulu to Tokyo is also approximately equidistant between Asia and North America?
Midway
4260. Graphing
What can be said of two lines with equal slopes but different y-intercepts?
They are parallel.
4261.
In what story by H.G. Wells do subterranean Morlocks live on Eloi?
The Time Machine
4262. Awards
Name the most highly prized British award for gallantry.
Victoria Cross
4263. Sales Techniques
Companies such as Avon Products, Herbalife, Mary Kay, and Tupperware have representatives that go to homes to present and demonstrate their products. This is known as what kind of selling?
direct selling
4264. Social Protest
'The Cat Ate My Gymsuit' by Paula Danziger is about Marcy's perspective that everything, including her social life, her weight, and her parents, is lousy. Then, things change fast after she meets a person in what profession?
teaching
4265. Nutrition
In human nutrition, name either of the necessary bulk minerals that begin with 's.'
sodium, sulfur
4266. Land Forms
A deep, steep-sided valley formed by a young river cutting mainly downward through the land is called a
gorge
4267.
The second fastest mammal lives in the Rocky Mountain states and has been clocked at over 60 miles per hour. Name this antelope.
pronghorn
4268.
Who told his men to 'Yell like furies when you charge' while preparing them to meet the Army of the Potomac at Bull Run?
(Thomas (Stonewall) Jackson
4269.
One device which directly contributed to the victory of the British during the Battle of Britain enabled the defenders to plot the approach of enemy aircraft well before they reached their targets. Name it.
radar
4270. Literary Characters
What character created by a Mr. Harris spoke these lines? Hungry rooster don't cackle w'en he find a wum Licker talks mighty loud w'en it git's loose fum de jug.
Uncle Remus
4271. Incredible Physiological Statistics
In one minute, a single molecule of cholinesterase, which operates at nerve synapses, can demolish 20 million molecules of what neurotransmitter?
acetylcholine
4272. Scientific Changes
These are among the types of evidence that may indicate what kind of change has taken place? -change of color -change of odor -formation of a precipitate or gas -emission of light, heat, or sound
chemical change
4273. Big Wings
Officially measured at 3.63 meters, name the living bird that holds the record for the greatest wingspan.
albatross (wandering albatross)
4274. Radical Fiction
As dams, bridges, and concrete destroy the environment in the American West, a burned-out veteran, a mad doctor, a revolutionary, and a polygamist outdoorsman join forces to dismantle the machinery of progress in what novel by Edward Abbey?
The Monkey Wrench Gang
4275. Mountains
What mountain in Georgia is the world's largest exposed granite pluton?
Stone Mountain
4276. Time Travel
In what story by Diana Gabaldon does a British nurse and veteran of World War II walk between some standing stones in Scotland and find herself in the eighteenth century?
Outlander
4277.
This Lewis and Clark journal entry refers to what animals? These wolves sally out in a body against any animal they think they can overpower, but on the slightest alarm, retreat to burrows making a noise like that of a small dog.
coyotes
4278. Lines
What adjective describes any line at right angles to the direction of a plumb line?
horizontal
4279. Valleys
Name either U.S. state partially occupied by the Champlain Lake Valley.
New York, Vermont
4280. Botanical Slang
What slang term referring to an easy victim or dupe is identical to a term used in botany referring to the watery fluid that circulates through a plant?
sap
4281. Drama
In a play, the chief opponent of the antagonist is the
protagonist
4282. City Names
What state includes these cities whose names came from Native American tribes inhabiting the region? Yazoo, Natchez, Biloxi
Mississippi
4283. Astronomical Interrelationships
Caused by the gravitational force of one or more other celestial bodies, what is the term for distortions that occur in the shape of a celestial body?
tides
4284. Ancient Fights
To the nearest mile, the Battle of Marathon in 490 B.C. occurred how far from Athens?
26 miles
4285.
What inappropriate shift is in this line? The yellowish-green creature gnawed open the door and then comes slithering up the stairs.
shift in tense
4286. Perimeters
A rectangle is 5 feet longer than it is wide. What is its width if its perimeter is 38 feet?
7 feet
4287. Amendments
The Fourth Amendment protects Americans against unreasonable searches and what else?
seizures
4288. Agriculture
What is the name for a belt of trees or shrubs arranged as a protection against strong winds?
shelterbelt (windbreak, hedgerow)
4289. Lincoln's Words
According to Abraham Lincoln, who can be fooled some of the time?
all of the people
4290. Waves
What kind of interference results when two waves are enough out of phase to partially or completely cancel each other?
destructive interference
4291. Combinations
In how many ways can four people be selected at random from a group of 10?
210
4292. Accents
Which word below is accented on the third syllable? Nothing is more common than mutual dislike, where mutual approbation is particularly expected.
approbation
4293. Marine Life
This indicates what form of marine life? They are solitary polyps that attach by a flat basal disc to solid objects underwater objects. Both the body column and the numerous tentacles are brilliantly colored.
sea anemones
4294. Compounds
What adjective indicates a chemical compound with all water removed?
anhydrous
4295. Clashes
In 1770, a crowd pressed in upon a detachment led by Thomas Preston in Massachusetts. The soldiers fired into the mob, killing five people. How did this incident become popularly known?
Boston Massacre
4296. First Women
What technologically advanced vehicles made these women's firsts possible? Peggy Whitson Eileen Collins Sally K. Ride Kathryn D. Sullivan
space shuttles
4297. Teachers on Trial
What subject did the Tennessee educator John Scopes teach?
biology
4298. Verbs
What adjective indicates verbs that form their past tense and past participle by changing a vowel in the infinitive?
irregular
4299. Human Anatomy
What is the collective name for body parts covered by the periosteum?
bones
4300. Abbreviations
In relation to transportation, the following are abbreviations for what? LAX, SEA, BOS, DAL, ATL, HNL, OKC, MIA
airports
4301. Asian Geography
What part of Russia forms the northern border of Mongolia?
Siberia
4302. Musical Groupings
What musical group is formed by combining two trios?
sextet
4303. Appropriations
Early in 1803, Congress appropriated $2500 for a military-scientific expedition to explore the Louisiana Territory. Who was to be first in command of this adventure?
Meriwether Lewis
4304. Colonial Representatives
The first meeting of an elected legislature in what was to become the United States occurred in 1619 in Jamestown. Name this body.
House of Burgesses
4305. Law Vocabulary
In law enforcement, what is the term for a pseudonym?
alias
4306. Stores
Small retail shops open long hours that stock items such as staple groceries, snacks, film, and magazines are what kind of stores?
convenience stores
4307. Circles
What is the line of centers for two circles with radii of
12 and 17 if the circles are concentric?
4308. Logic
In deductive logic, it would be inconsistent to accept the premises but deny the ...
conclusion
4309. Wartime Literature
These poems by William Cullen Bryant are about what war? Seventy-Six The Green Mountain Boys
American Revolution (Revolutionary War)
4310. Astronaut Vision
There's a full moon in Broken Arrow, Oklahoma. At the same time, a group of astronauts lands on the far side of the Moon. Their vision will mainly depend upon which of the two classes of sensory receptors in their retinas?
rods
4311. Light Speed
To the nearest thousand, express 300,000 kilometers per second in miles per second.
186,000
4312. Metals
A ferriferous substance contains what metal?
iron
4313. Solutions
Any substance that allows other substances to dissolve in it is called a what?
solvent
4314. Plate Tectonics
Laurasia, once the northern part of Pangaea, split off and eventually became Greenland and what three continents?
North America, Asia, Europe
4315. Number Conversions
A light-year is about 5.9 trillion miles. Express that number in scientific notation.
5.9 x (10 to the 12th power)
4316. Restaurant Traditions
At a restaurant, what is a four-syllable synonym for a tip?
gratuity
4317. Sentence Analysis
Classify the first two words in this sentence. To err is human and to blame others is politics.
infinitive
4318. Populations
What is the net change in population given this data? immigration = 29 mortality = 278 emigration = 312 natality = 115
-446
4319. 3
What are the first four words in the lyrics of Mendelssohn's 'Wedding March'?
Here comes the bride.
4320. Courts of Olde
What legendary monarch may have held his court in the parish in Somersetshire now called Queen's Camel?
King Arthur
4321. Flag Traditions
A naval tradition indicating mourning is flying a flag at half-mast. The same tradition anywhere outside the Navy is called flying a flag at ...
half-staff
4322. Body Tissue Analogies
With respect to bodily tissues, innermost is to endoderm as outermost is to ...
ectoderm
4323. Myths
The Pleiades consist of many daughters of Atlas?
seven
4324. Cylinders
If you double the radius of a right cylinder and triple its height, its volume is multiplied by ...
12
4325. Chinese History
The Xia, Shang, Zhou, Han, Tan, Ming, and Manchu leaders in China were all what kind of successions of tulers from the same family?
dynasties
4326. Settlements
The first non-native settlement in Alaska was established in 1784 by colonists from what country?
Russia
4327. Speeches
When Martin Luther King, Jr. delivered his 'I have a dream' speech, he was standing eighteen steps below the central figure of what Washington, D.C. memorial?
Lincoln Memorial
4328. Intervening States
What state lies between Pennsylvania and Michigan?
Ohio
4329. History of Science
The person who shouted 'eureka' upon discovering the principle of displacement was part of what ancient civilization?
Greece
4330. Deportations
The most infamous of the forced migrations of American Indians during Andrew Jackson's administration was called the Trail of what?
Tears
4331. Warriors
The medieval British knights were similar to what professional warriors of the Japanese feudal military aristocracy?
samurai
4332. Wildlife Conservation
In 1900, about 500,000 white-tailed deer remained in the U.S. Today, that population is about 36 million, an increase of what percentage?
7100
4333. Revolutionary Bandits
Francisco Villa was a Mexican bandit who became a revolutionary general during the Mexican Revolution and who unsuccessfully ran for the presidency after the revolution. What was his nickname?
Pancho
4334. Anthem Analysis
What is the first prepositional phrase in the U.S. national anthem?
by the dawn's early light
4335. Opinion Polls
Political parties often measure public sentiment with opinion polls. The questions to be answered by the poll may be asked directly by interviewers or may be in what printed form?
questionnaire
4336. Scientific Investigations
In scientific investigations, what is the term for the repetition of an experiment?
replication (duplication)
4337. Extinct Creatures
What animal mentioned in 'Alice in Wonderland' was last seen on the Indian Ocean island of Mauritius?
dodo
4338. Political Slang
Reminiscent of summertime footwear, what is the slang term for a politician who appears to waver on an issue?
flip-flopper
4339. The Whiz
What group in American government became 'Eight Old Men and a Whizzer' when Byron White joined their ranks?
Supreme Court
4340. Journalism
A newspaper prints an article about why the staff is supporting certain candidates in an upcoming election. Name this kind of piece.
editorial
4341. Symbols
In metals it is represented by copper. In precious stones it is represented by emerald. In planets it stands for Venus. Name this color associated with faith, gladness, immortality, and resurrection.
green
4342. National Park System
In what state is there a national park around a deep-blue lake in the heart of an inactive volcano?
Oregon
4343. Fictional Characters
What character is described by James Thurber as a repressed, ordinary man who daydreams of doing great things?
Walter Mitty
4344. Proverbs
A proverb meaning that success is not always certain and that things can go wrong at the last moment is
'There's many a slip 'twixt the cup and the ...'
4345. Shared Names
What name was shared by the first czar of Bulgaria, a Romanian king, a Spanish king of Castile, a Holy Roman emperor, and a gentle bull animated by Walt Disney Studios?
Ferdinand
4346. Symptoms
Name any one of the three most common symptoms of motion sickness.
nausea, fatigue, dizziness (vertigo)
4347. Symbols
An image of what historic structure in Philadelphia is depicted on the back of a U.S. $100 bill?
Independence Hall
4348. Musicals
What character in 'The King and I' sings this? Whenever I feel afraid I hold my head erect And whistle a happy tune So no one will suspect I'm afraid.
Anna
4349. First Aid
In reaction to trauma, what condition is characterized by a loss of blood pressure and depression of vital functions?
shock
4350. High States
What state east of the Mississippi has the highest average altitude?
West Virginia
4351. Politics
The concentration of political opinions around two opposing extremes is called ...
polarization
4352. 5
When you blow up a balloon, you are essentially filling it with potential energy. What kind of energy is illustrated when you release the balloon and the air jets out?
kinetic energy
4353. Photovoltaic Cells
The most common material used in solar cells is what crystalline, nonmetallic element that is abundant in the Earth's crust?
silicon
4354. Scientific Procedures
Members of what class of inorganic substances can be identified by these properties? color, cleavage, specific gravity, streak, hardness, crystal form
minerals
4355. Mountains
Name the highest mountain in Africa.
Kilimanjaro
4356. Antilles Territories
Puerto Rico became a territory of the United States as a result of the treaty ending what war?
Spanish-American War
4357. Revolutionary Allies
During the American Revolution, Britain also declared war on France and what two other European countries that were providing aid to the Americans?
Spain, Netherlands
4358. Nouns
In contrast to nouns such as tree, book, and policeman, what kind of nouns are these? wool, energy, water, weather, air
uncountable
4359. International Offenders
Because of the continuing attacks by its people on private boats and commercial ships, what East African nation has come to be known as the 'Land of the Pirates'?
Somalia
4360. Geological Rhymes
A sinking of the land in an area is called ...
subsidence
4361. Theater
Located on the West Side of midtown Manhattan, name the main professional theater district of New York City.
Broadway
4362.
Complete this line from the Constitution. Congress shall have the power to coin money, regulate the value thereof, and of foreign coin, and fix the standard of weights and ...
measures
4363. Energy Conversions
The windmills of Holland convert wind energy into what other form of energy?
mechanical energy
4364. The Coordinate Plane
In what quadrant of the coordinate plane are both x and y less than zero?
quadrant III
4365. Trails
The last part of what major trail to the west was the Columbia River?
Oregon Trail
4366. Birds
Name the only native parrot of the U.S. that is now extinct.
Carolina parakeet
4367. Transportation
These names are associated with what railroad? Levi Coffin, Frederick Douglass, Samuel Green, Harriet Tubman, William Lloyd Garrison, Isaac Hopper, Sojourner Truth
Underground Railroad
4368. City Nicknames
While Manila is called the Pearl of the Orient, what Hungarian city is known as the Pearl of the Danube?
Budapest
4369. Measurement History
What 18th-century physicist decided to use the melting point of ice and the boiling point of water as calibration points for his thermometer?
Gabriel Fahrenheit (or Fahrenheit)
4370. Victories
The British victory in the Falklands War helped what prime minister remain in office?
Margaret Thatcher
4371. Genetic Diseases
Albinism is a genetic disorder which results in a lack of skin what?
pigment (pigmentation, color)
4372. Disorders
What body system is directly affected by eczema, carbuncles, and albinism?
integumentary system (skin)
4373. Peninsulas
The cities of Pyongyang and Pusan are on what peninsula?
Korean Peninsula
4374. Scientific Advancements
Robert Boyle established that if the pressure on a gas is doubled, what happens to its volume?
It is halved.
4375. Eulogies
These lines are from a eulogy about whom? -That man was the most famous New Zealander of our time. -His achievement on that day cannot be underestimated. -He went to a height and a place no man had gone before. -He went there with 1950s, not 21st-century. technology.
Edmund Hillary
4376. Punctuation
Quotation marks are one type of punctuation mark always used in pairs. Name either of the others.
brackets, parentheses
4377. 2
What do uninucleate cells have?
one nucleus
4378. Battle Sites
In what country did the battles of Bataan and Corregidor take place?
Philippines
4379. Legislation
In 1933, the AAA became the first modern U.S. farm bill. It restricted agricultural production by paying farmers subsidies to let a portion of their fields lie fallow and to kill off surplus livestock. For what did that abbreviation stand?
Agricultural Adjustment Act
4380. Decorations
Name the small, shiny disk-shaped beads sewn onto clothing for decorative purposes.
sequins (spangles, diamantes)
4381. U
The Kissimmee River brings water to what national park?
Everglades
4382.
The abbreviation for an American possession in the South Pacific corresponds to the chemical symbol for what poisonous metallic element?
arsenic
4383. Paintings
A landscape is a depiction of natural landforms. What is a depiction of an urban scene called?
cityscape
4384. Big Birds
What South American bird is most similar to the African ostrich?
rhea
4385. Declining Amphibians
Studies conducted in 1997 tentatively linked the ongoing, worldwide reduction in amphibians to what kind of radiation that may be increasing due to the loss of high-altitude atmospheric ozone?
ultraviolet
4386. Judge Talk
What word is used by a judge when refusing to honor an attorney's objection in court?
overruled
4387. Tennis Shots
What is the term for a tennis shot that arcs over the
opponent's head?
4388. Humidity
The quantity of moisture that can be held by the air has a definite limit called what point?
saturation point
4389. Aviators
Claire Lee Chennault became air advisor to Chiang Kai-shek during the Second Sino-Japanese War. In 1941, he organized the American Voluntary Group in China. Name this group of fighter pilots.
Flying Tigers
4390. It's Not Wampum
About 500 million 'Sackies' became available to the U.S. public in early 2001. This slang name refers to whom?
Sacajawea
4391. Ice Ages
In glaciologic terms, ice ages are made up of several glaciations, during which the ice advances and then does what?
retreats
4392. Failed Plans
In the early 19th century, William Hull, Stephen Van Rensselaer, and Henry Dearborn commanded different forces in a failed three-pronged invasion of what country?
Canada
4393. Regions
The Grand Banks is known as the foggiest place on Earth. The reason is that in this region, the cold waters of the Labrador Current meet the warm waters of what other current?
Gulf Stream
4394. Comparisons
What is the term for the kind of comparison illustrated in these lines? -She grew on him like she was a colony of E. Coli and he was room-temperature beef. -Granddad has a mind like a steel trap, only one that has been left out so long it has rusted shut.
analogy
4395. Historic Landmarks
These historic sites are in what state? Winslow Homer Studio Portland Observatory Sarah Orne Jewett House Wadsworth Longfellow House Kennebec Arsenal
Maine
4396. Bishops
What is the title of the bishop of Rome?
pope
4397. Anthems
Name the tiny country whose national anthem is the 'Marcia Pontificale.'
Vatican
4398. Homonyms
Spell the word for the sound of a bell that is a homonym for the skin of a citrus fruit.
peal
4399. Imaging
What medical technology is based on a large donut-shaped x-ray machine that takes exposures at several different angles around the body which are then processed by a computer to create cross-sectional images?
CAT scan
4400. Cuisine
You mash a few avocados in a bowl with lemon juice, grated onion, salsa, pepper, and salt. Identify this popular dish.
guacamole
4401. Law
These are examples of what aspect of a criminal court procedure? -participation in community service -time on a work crew -probation -incarceration -paying a fine -house arrest
sentences
4402.
What is the body of an airplane called?
fuselage
4403. Admission
For what does the abbreviation stand in this? House leader Richard Gephardt was pushing legislation that requires Congress to approve the terms of China's admission to the WTO.
World Trade Organization
4404. Erroneous Predictions
In 1950, General MacArthur said, 'The war very definitely is coming to an end shortly.' This statement was made in regard to what conflict?
Korean War
4405. Religious Opposition
What was the name of the group of English Protestants who opposed practices of the Church of England such as the use of priestly gowns, kneeling during sacraments, and almost anything reminiscent of the Roman Catholic Church?
Puritans
4406. Earth's Evolution
Evidence for what ages include rock scouring and scratching, moraines, drumlins, valley cutting, erratics, and the deposition of till?
ice ages (glacial ages)
4407. Fictional Foliage
In O. Henry's story, 'The Last Leaf,' Johnsy believed that when the plant outside her window lost all its leaves, she would die. What kind of plant was it?
ivy
4408. Ancient Asia
Name the region of east-central Asia throughout which, in the thirteenth century, Genghis Khan united all the tribes and built an empire.
Mongolia
4409. Musicians
What instrument was played by these musicians? Van Cliburn Victor Borge Vladimir Horowitz Ludwig van Beethoven
piano
4410. Fallen Nations
Six months after President Nixon's resignation, what country fell to the Communists?
South Vietnam
4411. Nationalities
What was the nationality of the ancient military leader who was said to have wept because he had no more worlds to conquer?
Greek (Macedonian)
4412. Bygone Birds
Since there had not been a confirmed sighting of the Alaotra Grebe in 25 years, in 2010 it was declared what?
extinct
4413. Metal Resources
These are ores of what metal? covelite, malachite, chrysocolla, azurite, cuprite, chalcocite, chalcopyrite
copper
4414. British Science Fiction
This is from what work by Mary Shelley? It was already one in the morning. The rain pattered dismally against the panes, and my candle was nearly burnt out, when, by the glimmer of the half-extinguished light, I saw the dull yellow eye of the creature open.
Frankenstein
4415. Aeronautical Abbreviations
What does the abbreviation stand for in this statement? The CG is the point at which an aircraft would balance if it were possible to suspend it at that point.
center of gravity
4416. Cookie Math
You made some buffalo chip cookies. Your big brother ate 50% of them, and then your big sister ate 50% of what was left, leaving 14 cookies. How many cookies did you make?
56
4417. Historical Malapropisms
What was Julius Caesar's original statement that has been mutilated in this? All Gaul is quartered in three halves.
All Gaul is divided into three parts.
4418. Battles
At the Battle of Chalons in 451, the Visigoths and Romans united to turn back what other people led by Attila?
Huns
4419. Settlers
What is the collective name for the Scandinavians who established the settlements on the Shetland, Orkney, and Faroe Islands, Iceland, Greenland, and Newfoundland?
Norsemen (Vikings)
4420. Novels
This is from what story? Wherever they's a fight so hungry people can eat, I'll be there. Wherever they's a cop beatin' up a guy, I'll be there. An' when our folks eat the stuff they raise an' live in the houses they build-why, I'll be there.
The Grapes of Wrath
4421. Baseball Idioms
What expression from the game of baseball means that a person has completed the initial stage of a process?
make it to first base
4422. Africa
The second largest country in sub-Saharan Africa is on the Atlantic Ocean and is bordered to the north by Zaire, to the east by Zambia, and to the south by Namibia. Name it.
Angola
4423. Blood
The cells that give blood its characteristic red color are what kind of 'cytes'?
erythrocytes
4424. European Regions
What is the easternmost Nordic country?
Finland
4425. Affixes
What suffix is added to most one-syllable modifiers to
form the comparative degree?
4426. Biological Laws
What biological law is stated below? Only one member of each allelic pair of genes will end up in a gamete. When fertilization brings two sets of chromosomes back together, their genes may be recombined into new allelic combinations.
law of segregation
4427. Theft
What is the psychological term for the irresistible impulse of an otherwise sane person to steal things?
kleptomania
4428. Autoantonyms
What one word that rhymes with 'sip' can mean either to fasten together or to cut apart?
clip (zip)
4429. Compass Reading
On a compass, what direction is opposite from a bearing of 315 degrees?
135 degrees
4430. Spanish
Translate this line from 'Don Quixote.' La mejor salsa del mundo es la hambre.
Hunger is the best sauce in the world.
4431. Greek Myths
Narcissus was fond of whose image?
his own
4432. Men for All Seasons
What 11th century Persian who revised the Muslim calendar and was astronomer to the sultan is better known for his poetry?
Omar Khayyam
4433. Ships of the Revolution
The old French ship had a crew of 380 men from 11 countries. John Paul Jones rebuilt it and forged this motley collection of sailors, beachcombers, and peasants into as stout a force as ever served under the Stars and Stripes. Name this vessel.
Bonhomme Richard
4434. Solutions
Solutions are homogenous mixtures composed of solvents and what else?
solutes
4435. Verbs
What are the principal parts of 'lend'?
lend, lent, has lent
4436. Literary Honors
Ernest Hemingway was referring to what book when he said this? All modern American literature comes from one book by Mark Twain. It's the best book we've had. There was nothing before. There has been nothing so good since.
Huckleberry Finn
4437. Albinos
An albino rat's eyes are what color?
pink
4438. Plate Tectonics
This is about which of the world's great plates? On its southern and southeastern side, it is bounded by an oceanic rise. Its western side is marked by deep sea trenches and island arcs. Its northeastern side is defined by the San Andreas Fault.
Pacific plate
4439. Emblems
The national emblem of Canada is the leaf of what tree?
maple
4440. Afflictions
These are disorders of what body system? alveolitis, pneumoconiosis, empyema, pleurisy, pneumothorax, asbestosis, nasopharyngitis
respiratory system
4441. Volcanoes
Beyond Earth, the greatest number of volcanoes are on what planet?
Venus
4442. Light Speed
Light travels at about 300,000 kilometers in a second while sound travels at about 330 meters in the same time. To the nearest hundred thousand, light is how many times faster than sound?
900,000
4443. Espionage Resolution
In 2010 in the largest spy swap since the end of the Cold War, what two nations exchanged several prisoners accused of spying?
Russia, United States
4444. Sentences
According to this sentence, who was at the Olympics? Tanya wrote to Kathy every day when she was in Lillehammer.
Tanya or Kathy
4445. Bodily Cells
What kind of cells are suspended in plasma?
blood cells
4446. Wordy Writing
What one word can replace five pretentious words in this sentence? I can't be a pro basketball player due to the fact that I am less than four feet tall.
because (since, as)
4447. Publishers
What prominent editor and publisher became blind, but continued his work?
Joseph Pulitzer
4448. Astronomy
An astronomer looking at the diffuse gaseous component of the head of a comet is looking at the ...
coma
4449. Satellite Departures
The velocity that a satellite must have to break loose from Earth's gravitational attraction is called the ...
escape velocity
4450. Volcanoes on Moons
Because it has been active during every observation of it since first being seen by Voyager | in 1979, the Prometheus volcano on Io has been given what nickname reminiscent of a certain geyser in Yellowstone National Park?
Old Faithful
4451. Astronomers
Who, in 1610, became the first person to observe Saturn's rings?
Galileo
4452.
Emperor Nero deported critics and burned manuscripts of which he disapproved. This is an early example of what political practice?
censorship
4453. Seasons
Name both equinoxes.
vernal, autumnal
4454. Eastern Europe
Formerly a republic of the USSR, it declared its independence in 1991. Name this nation bordered by Ukraine to the south, east, and north, and Romania to the west.
Moldova
4455. Philosopher-Scientists
Name the English philosopher and statesman who replaced the 'a priori' method of the scholastics with a formulation of the inductive method of modern science.
Francis Bacon
4456. Folksongs
What name is missing from this title of a Stephen Foster song? Old Black ----
Joe
4457. Wars
What war was caused largely by British violations of American neutral rights during the Napoleonic Wars and by the desire of some Americans for territorial expansion into Canada?
War of 1812
4458. Silly Acronyms
What make of automobile could be an acronym for 'Dead On Day Guarantee Expires'?
Dodge
4459. Justices
Who was the chief justice when George Washington was first inaugurated as president?
nobody (none were appointed yet)
4460. Chemical Compounds
What molecule consists of a single atom of oxygen and a single atom of carbon?
carbon monoxide (CO)
4461.
Regions in which groundwater has shaped the landscape by dissolution of limestone are named after what valley in the former Yugoslavia where such features are typical?
Karst Valley
4462. True Stories
Complete this title of a memoir by Esther Hautzig about her Polish family being forced into cattle cars and moved to Siberia to weed potato fields and work in mines to survive. The Endless ...
Steppe
4463. Blood Tests
For most blood tests, blood is extracted from what kind of vessel?
vein
4464. Theater
While the main character was delivering her soliloquy, another actor toward the rear of the stage was reacting to the speech by making faces and emitting strange noises, drawing the audience's attention to himself. What is this called?
upstaging
4465. Anagrams
There are several anagrams for the word 'angered.' Which of these is a type of explosive weapon?
grenade
4466. Physics History
James Chadwick discovered what particle in the nucleus of an atom that was given its name because it has no electric charge?
neutron
4467. Royal Technology
Who because of the advent of television became the first British monarch to be crowned in full view of all the people?
Queen Elizabeth II
4468. Tuneful Tales
What musical, based on Gaston Leroux's 1910 novel of the same name, tells the story of a disfigured composer living in the depths of the Paris Opera who becomes a suspect in the disappearance of young singer, Christine Daae?
The Phantom of the Opera
4469. Rolling Balls
To the nearest whole number, a ball with a 20-inch diameter rolls how far in three rotations?
188 inches
4470. Elections
What is the term for an organized effort to elect a candidate that includes fundraising, public meetings, and lots of advertising?
campaign
4471. Conversational Idiocy
To what eminent physicist was movie mogul Jack Warner referring when he said this? You know, I have a theory about relatives too-don't hire them.
Albert Einstein
4472. Past Professions
The development of what technology put most scribes out of business?
printing
4473. City-States
What contemporary city-state is a principality adjacent to the Mediterranean Sea?
Monaco
4474. Antecedents
What word is the antecedent in this statement? Remember that pronouns agree with their antecedents in gender, number, and person.
pronouns
4475. Assonance
What words illustrate assonance in this line? All day Buck brooded by the pool or roamed restlessly above the camp.
brooded, pool
4476. Fantastic Diseases
In the Harry Potter books, the only cure for what disease is to bind the liver of a toad around the victim's throat and stand nude in a barrel of eel's eyes under a full moon?
spattergroit
4477. Peninsulas
What major peninsula lies north of Guatemala?
Yucatan
4478. Roman Word Squares
What are the last two words in the famous five-word word square that begins with this? SATOR AREPO TENET
OPERA, ROTAS
4479. Ocean Landforms
What is the common name for a zone of sediment that accumulates between the average low-water ocean level and a landward change in topography?
beach
4480. Broadway
The 1983-1984 season produced three sellout musicals including 'La Cage aux Folles,' 'Sunday in the Park with George,' and what other based on the poetry of T.S. Eliot?
Cats
4481. Longitude
A longitude of 160 degrees west runs through which two oceans?
Pacific, Arctic
4482. Doggerel
What is the last word in this clerihew? Donald Duck Can't cluck. But he doesn't lack A...
quack
4483. Confucius
What two-word phrase completes this advice from Confucius? Do not do unto others what you would not wish done ...
unto you (to you)
4484. Flight
What flying machine derives its lift from aerostatic forces in contrast to aerodynamic forces?
dirigible (blimp, airship, balloon)
4485. Disease Transmission
What substance is involved in the transmission of giardia, cholera, dysentery, typhoid fever, and E. coli infection?
water (contaminated water)
4486. Personal Accounts
Who wrote this in 1927? I'm crabbing 15 degrees to offset drift, on course with plenty of fuel. I have a drink of water. In hanging up the canteen, I let my map slide toward the open window. I grab it with a start. If I lose this sheet of paper, this key to Paris, I'd have to turn back.
Charles Lindbergh
4487. Shapes
The top of an obelisk has the shape of what solid figure?
pyramid
4488. Capitals
The name of the capital city of what Caribbean country literally means 'port to the prince' in French?
Haiti
4489. Flowers
With determinate inflorescence, the stem stops growing when flowers develop from buds at the tip of the stem. With what kind of inflorescence does the stem continue to grow as flowers develop near the temporary tip?
indeterminate inflorescence
4490. Earthquakes
On a seismogram, which type of wave generated by an earthquake is last to be recorded?
L wave
4491. Popular Landmarks
The Juliette Gordon Low Historic District in Savannah, Georgia includes the site of the first meeting of what enduring organization?
Girl Scouts
4492. A Unique Body of Art
The Great Zorbin makes indelible designs on the skin of his customers by introducing minute amounts of pigment under the surface of the skin. Name this process.
tattooing
4493. Hemispheric Travel
A person traveling exactly halfway around the world along the 36th parallel of latitude would cover how many degrees of longitude?
180 degrees
4494. Electrical Measurement
What is the unit of quantity measure for a flow of electrons?
ampere
4495. Seaside Countries
Name the geographically largest country bordering the Aegean Sea.
Turkey
4496. Temples
No mortar or cement was used in building the Parthenon. Instead, the rock blocks were cut so that the stones had slots adjacent to one another. These were filled with what molten substance to bind the blocks together?
lead
4497. Verb Tense
Express 'Vlad bites' in the present perfect tense.
Viad has bitten
4498. Art Forms
These are imaginative definitions of what art form? -a barbarian exercise of savage origin -when the play of limbs succeeds the play of wit -the poetry of the feet
dance (dancing)
4499. Industrial Concepts
In anticipation of a surge in demand for their Oscillating Auk Lamps, AukCo managers had 900 of them assembled. After a year, AukCo still had 893 left. What is the name for the excess quantity?
surplus (glut, oversupply)
4500. 1
What western military rank came from the Arabic naval title, 'amir al-bahr'?
admiral
4501. Horticulture
Samuel Rumph developed what type of fruit that he named after his wife, Elberta?
peach
4502. Emergency Care
These are among the things you should do when administering what first-aid procedure? -kneel alongside the victim -interlock fingers and use the heel of the bottom hand only for compressions -perform quick, forceful compressions straight down on the chest
CPR (cardiopulmonary resuscitation)
4503. Freedom
As protected by the First Amendment, the freedom of expression includes the freedoms of speech, press, assembly, and what else?
petition
4504. Loess
The loess deposits in China consist of windblown material from what major desert?
Gobi (Ordos)
4505. Wartime History
Although his report was ignored, an Army technician using what relatively new technology detected the approaching first wave of the Japanese force about an hour before it attacked Pearl Harbor?
radar
4506. Sentence Parts
What is the simple object of the verb in this line by Thomas Jefferson? I have sworn eternal hostility against every form of tyranny over the mind of man.
hostility
4507. Figurative Language
What figure of speech is illustrated in this? World War I started with a tiny spark that quickly spread into a roaring fire that consumed Europe.
metaphor
4508. African Dictators
Before he was ousted in 1979, what Uganda dictator was responsible for the slaughter of some 300,000 of his countrymen?
Idi Amin
4509. Michigan
If you alphabetize the largest lakes adjacent to Michigan, which is first?
Lake Erie
4510. Motion Picture Directing
What is the director's command to the actors to stop playing a scene?
cut
4511. Marine Organisms
Name the major ecological group of marine organisms that includes small animals and plants that generally have no locomotive organs, drift with the currents and includes protozoans, small crustaceans, and diatoms.
plankton
4512. Old West Crime
In the Old West, an unscrupulous person might take over a claim after it had already been staked out by someone else. This activity was called claim what?
jumping
4513. Angle Supplements
What is the supplement of an angle with a measure of 124 degrees 42 minutes 8 seconds?
55 degrees 17 minutes 52 seconds
4514. Root Words
The root word in 'theocracy' and 'theology' means ...
divine (godlike)
4515. Sites
Bar Harbor, Booth Bay Railway Museum, and the Portland Headlight Lighthouse are in what state?
Maine
4516. Vetoes
The concept of a veto originated in what ancient empire?
Rome
4517. Short Stories
What story by James Hurst features a young and sickly boy called Doodle, who despite the efforts of his older brother to strengthen him, nevertheless perishes like the vivid red wading bird they had found dead in their garden?
The Scarlet Ibis
4518. Republics
This republic is composed of over seven thousand islands in the South Pacific. It was ruled by Spain, then by the United States, and finally became independent in 1946. Name it.
Philippines
4519. Uncommon Careers
These folks participated in what illegal activity? John Andre Nathan Hale Alger Hiss Ethel Rosenberg Mata Hari Allan Pinkerton
spying (espionage)
4520. Moons
William Lassell is credited with discovering Saturn's moon Hyperion and Neptune's largest satellite. Name it.
Triton
4521. Elections
What is the name for the list of candidates endorsed by a political party in an election?
ticket
4522. Termites
In a termite nest, the only female that lays eggs is the
queen
4523. Capitalization
The first word in every line of what literary form is practically always capitalized whether or not the word begins a sentence?
poetry
4524. Tissues
It has a hard and relatively rigid matrix impregnated with inorganic salts such as calcium carbonate and calcium phosphate. Name this body tissue.
bone
4525. Ancient Government Reform
The Greek archon Solon played a significant role in the early development of what form of government?
democracy
4526. Speeches
These words are from a speech by whom? I have today ordered to Vietnam the Air Mobile Division which will raise our fighting strength from 75,000 to 125,000 men. Additional forces will be needed later, and they will be sent as requested.
Lyndon Johnson
4527. Olympic Sites
Innsbruck, once the site of the Winter Olympics, is in what country?
Austria
4528. Landforms
What landform did Charles Darwin say results from the subsidence of volcanic islands in relation to sea level and the simultaneous growth of a coral reef?
atoll
4529. Solutions
What adjective describes solutions having a low concentration of solute?
dilute
4530. Australian Traditions
A journey by foot through the Australian outback is a
walkabout
4531.
If it takes three aircraft mechanics twelve hours to install a new jet engine, how long would it take four aircraft mechanics to complete the same job?
nine hours
4532. Dance
These are moves in what kind of dancing? right through, circle to a line, box the gnat, shoot the star, forward and back, men sashay, promenade left, allemande right
square dancing
4533. Lava
What kind of basalts form when, like being squeezed from a toothpaste tube, elongated blobs of lava break out underwater and flow over previously deposited blobs?
pillow basalt (pillow lava)
4534. Science Fiction
What story by Jules Verne tells the tale of four men who are fired from a huge cannon at Cape Canaveral to our planet's natural satellite?
From the Earth to the Moon
4535.
William Bradford is referring to what group of settlers in this line? Being arrived in a good harbor, they fell upon their knees and blessed the God of Heaven who had brought them over the furious ocean and delivered them from all the perils and miseries thereof.
Pilgrims
4536. 1941 Quotes
Complete this quote by Winston Churchill. In war - resolution. In defeat - defiance. In victory - magnanimity. In peace - ...
good will
4537. Quotes
He said, 'Employ your time in improving yourself by other men's writing so that you shall come easily by what others have labored hard for.' What Athenian 'corrupter of youth' said this?
Socrates
4538. Coastlines
What South American country north of Brazil has the longest coastline on the Caribbean Sea?
Venezuela
4539. Pressure
A metal cube is 10 inches on a side. If the cube weighs 280 pounds, how many pounds per square inch is exerted on the surface below?
2.8 psi
4540. Volume
The liquid contents of a cube that is one centimeter on a side will come up to what mark when placed in a graduated cylinder?
1 milliliter
4541. Gas Masks
When air passes through the activated charcoal of a gas mask, a film of impurities accumulates on the charcoal. Name this surface phenomenon.
adsorption
4542.
The same Hungarian-born American newspaper publisher who endowed the Columbia University School of Journalism also endowed what awards conferred annually?
Pulitzer Prizes
4543. Aviators
In 1926, who was the pilot on the first regularly scheduled mail flight between St. Louis and Chicago?
Charles Lindbergh
4544. Sports of Sorts
In a bullfight, what is the performer who actually kills the bull called?
matador
4545. Machines
The cutting edges of knives and chisels are what kind of simple machines?
wedges
4546. Historical Musicals
These are songs from what Broadway musical about a major disaster in 1912? I Must Get On That Ship The First Class Roster Wake Up, Wake Up Dressed In Your Pyjamas In the Grand Salon The Blame To the Lifeboats The Foundering
Titanic
4547. Phrases
How many infinitive phrases are in this line by Niccolo Machiavelli? There is nothing more perilous to take in hand, more perilous to conduct, or more uncertain in its success, than to take the lead in the
introduction of a new order of things.
4548. Slogans
Translate this Nazi slogan. Ein Reich, Ein Volk, Ein Fuhrer.
One nation, one people, one leader.
4549. Travel
A person traveling from Dominica to Costa Rica would travel across what sea?
Caribbean Sea
4550. Astronomical Positions
The aphelion is the point on an elliptical orbit at which a planet is farthest from what?
the Sun
4551. Minerals
The only two minerals that are naturally magnetized are pyrrhotite and what other?
lodestone (magnetite)
4552.
In what story by O. Henry do Bill and Sam discover that the boy they have kidnapped is such a terror that they actually have to pay the father to take the kid back?
The Ransom of Red Chief
4553. Creepy Stories
This is from what story by Edgar Allan Poe? It is impossible to say how first the idea entered my brain, but once conceived, it haunted me day and night. Object there was none. Passion there was none. I loved the old man. He had never wronged me. He had never given me insult. For his gold I had no desire. I think it was his eye!
The Tell-Tale Heart
4554. Verb Properties
Restate this line in the active voice. Sixty anchovies were eaten by the auk.
The auk ate sixty anchovies.
4555. Empires
At its pinnacle in the early 20th century, what empire included one-fourth of the world's land?
British Empire
4556. Tense
Restate this line in the future perfect progressive form. I osculate.
| will (shall) have been osculating.
4557. Photocells
What are ejected from the silicon in a solar panel when light strikes it?
electrons
4558. Journalism
According to the editor, Charles Dana, when a dog bites a man, that is not news. What did he say is news?
When a man bites a dog.
4559. Fault Displacement
If the San Andreas fault averages a 2-centimeter displacement annually, the 4-meter offset from the San Francisco earthquake of 1906 was the release of strain that accumulated over how many years?
200
4560. Genetics History
Mendel gave the name 'elemente' to the discrete units that carry inherited characteristics. Today, what is the name for Mendel's elements?
genes
4561.
The line about which a plane figure may be rotated to create a solid is called the ---- of rotation.
axis
4562.
W.E.B. Du Bois was referring to what group of Americans when he asked this in 1903? Is it possible and probable that nine millions of men can make effective progress in economic lines if they are deprived of political rights, made a servile case, and allowed only the most meager chance for developing their exceptional men?
blacks
4563. Revolutions
These people made significant contributions to what revolution? John Kay, Samuel Crompton, Richard Arkwright, James Hargreaves, Edmund Cartwright
Industrial Revolution
4564. Legendary Outlaws
Robert MacGregor, a highlander known as the Scottish Robin Hood, is popularly known as Rob who?
Roy
4565. Sports Injuries
With climber's finger, what kind of fibrous connective tissue is injured?
tendon
4566. Capitals
What is the capital of the country immediately to the east of the country whose capital is Port-au-Prince?
Santo Domingo
4567. Amendments
Which Constitutional amendment essentially states that the Bill of Rights is only a partial listing of the people's rights?
9th Amendment
4568. Transportation Entrepreneurs
In the Old West, what form of conveyance was the basis for John Butterfield's mail and public transportation service?
stagecoach
4569. Roman Numeral Anatomy
The Roman numeral CCVI represents the number of what in the body?
bones
4570. Migrations
Name either of the two modern countries into which the Visigoths immigrated during the late Roman Empire.
Spain, France
4571. Planaria
The eyespots of planaria act as what kind of receptors?
photoreceptors
4572. Crime
The theft of branded livestock is what crime?
rustling
4573. Rodents
What North American rodent, usually about eight inches long exclusive of its hairy tail, often decorates its large nest with shiny materials and objects from human habitations?
pack rat (trade rat, wood rat)
4574. Inventions
Uncle Ferdie developed a cold fusion machine and registered it with the government. His exclusive right to make, use, and sell his invention is called a ...
patent
4575. Prospectors
The miner Borax Smith earned his nickname from his strike in what valley?
Death Valley
4576. Maxims
What, according to 'Poor Richard's Almanack,' may three keep if two of them are dead?
a secret
4577. Mineral Genesis
Almost all minerals come from what molten liquid material deep in the Earth?
magma
4578. Chimes
One clock chimes every 6 minutes while another chimes every 8 minutes. If they chime simultaneously at 2 p.m., at what time will they next chime together?
2:24 p.m.
4579. Ancient Immigrants
The first people who came to the Americas are believed to have come from what continent?
Asia
4580. Adhesives
What category of adhesives must be applied to both surfaces and allowed to dry for a while before both surfaces are pressed together?
contact adhesives
4581. Stupid Opinions
In 2006, the right-wing British historian David Irving was sentenced by an Austrian court to three years in prison for denying what World War II genocide of European Jews?
the Holocaust
4582. Picturesque Parks
Featuring soaring cliffs and free-falling waterfalls, what U.S. national park on the west slope of the Sierra Nevada Mountains best illustrates the effects of glacial erosion on granitic bedrock?
Yosemite National Park
4583. Comparative Anatomy
What term indicates the lower bill in birds, one of the paired appendages closest to the mouth in arthropods, and the lower jaw in vertebrates?
mandible
4584. Midpoints
Determine the midpoint of the segment from (-6,5) to
(2,5).
4585. Orbits
All planetary orbits in the solar system are elliptical, with what heavenly body occupying one focus?
Sun
4586. Metals
Mixing iron, which is very soft when pure, with just a small amount of various other metals, can increase its hardness by up to 1000%. Name this process of combining metals.
alloying
4587. Ancient Geography
The ancient city of Jericho is near the west bank of what river?
Jordan River
4588. Proverbs
How is this proverb normally stated? It is fruitless to become lacrymose over precipitately departed lacteal fluid.
Don't cry over spilled milk.
4589. Word Squares
What are the last two words in a word square if the first two are 'gnat' and 'name'?
amen, tent
4590. Europe
What country has the longest coastline on the Aegean Sea?
Greece
4591. Homonyms
What homonym can indicate a stroke of luck, a kind of flatworm, the end parts of an anchor, or the fins on a whale's tail?
fluke
4592. Money Changing
At an exchange rate of 1 for 320, how many South African rands would you get for 2880 Venezuelan
bolivars?
4593. Marine Zoology
Name any creature that would be an appropriate subject in a course entitled 'Decapod Anatomy.'
crab, lobster, shrimp, crayfish, squid, cuttlefish
4594. Earth's Interior
The lithosphere, a brittle outer layer of rock, overlays what soft yielding rock layer of the Earth's interior?
asthenosphere
4595. Europe
Liechtenstein and France are two of the five countries that border Switzerland. Name the other three.
Germany, Austria, Italy
4596. Earthquake Theories
What theory attempts to explain earthquakes by comparing rocks to rubber bands?
elastic rebound theory
4597. Prime Numbers
What is the next prime number after 23?
29
4598. Monuments
What monument at the end of the Champs-Elysees in Paris commemorates the victories of Napoleon?
Arch of Triumph
4599. Earthquakes
Generally, the larger the main shock, the more numerous subsequent shocks are what other kind of shocks?
aftershocks
4600. British Naval History
Used by the Royal Navy during the 18th and early 19th centuries, the act of seizing people to serve aboard warships is called ...
impressment
4601. Eastern Europe
What country is between Estonia and Lithuania?
Latvia
4602. Uplifts
During the Jurassic period of the Mesozoic era, what mountain range of eastern California was uplifted?
Sierra Nevada (Sierras)
4603. Government Functions
A core element of national interest for a government is providing for the physical safety of a nation's citizens. This is called national ...
defense (security)
4604. Skeletal Disorders
Name the disorder in which a toe is bent downward and cannot be extended.
hammer toe
4605. Ancient Emperors
This is about what Macedonian leader? When he died of a fever in Babylon in 323 B.C., he had assembled, in a dozen years, the largest empire the world had known.
Alexander the Great
4606. Pirate Talk
What is a pirate's term for someone who has spent little or no time at sea?
landlubber
4607. Tennessee History
What Tennessee town was created by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers in 1942 as part of the Manhattan Project?
Oak Ridge
4608. Efficiency
If 200 J of work is done by the effort and 160 J of work is done on the load, then what is the efficiency of the machine?
80%
4609. Political Factions
In the mid-1790s, two American political factions emerged. The Hamiltonian faction took on the name of Federalists, while the Jeffersonians became the Republicans. The latter was a predecessor of what modern political party?
Democrat Party
4610. Sports Biographies
'Venus and Serena' is a biography about two exceptional athletes in what sport?
tennis
4611. Solutions
Name the natural process of the settling out of the solid particles transported by moving water.
sedimentation (deposition)
4612. Acceleration
If force equals mass times acceleration, then acceleration equals what?
force divided by mass
4613. The Space Program
In what model of space capsule were these people killed? Gus Grissom Roger Chaffee Edward White
Apollo
4614. Homonyms
Spell the three homonyms that sound like the plural form of the third letter of the alphabet.
seize, seas, sees
4615. Sets
What type of sets are illustrated if set A equals {p, q, and r} and set B equals {t, u, and v}?
disjoint (non-overlapping)
4616. Algebraic Ratios
Express this ratio in lowest terms. x cubed to 6(x squared)
x/6 (or x to 6)
4617. Blood Disorders
The blood of a person with hemophilia fails to .
clot
4618. 19th-Century Cemeteries
What name was given to over two dozen cemeteries of the Old West where gunfighters and others who 'died with their boots on' are buried?
Boot Hill
4619. Energy
Name the process in which rays or waves of energy travel through a vacuum.
radiation (propagation)
4620. Historical Literature
These nonfictional works are about what period in American history? Angry Scar Road to Reunion Reunion and Reaction The Tragic Era
Reconstruction
4621. Political Positioning
These positions promulgated by the Polk administration elaborated what earlier doctrine? -The people of this continent alone have the right to decide their own destiny. -We can never consent that European powers shall interfere to prevent the union of an independent state with the U.S.
Monroe Doctrine
4622. Gravity
Who theorized that gravitation is not a force but a curvature of space and time around a body?
Albert Einstein
4623. Atoms
What property of an atom is the radii of travel by electrons around the nucleus?
electron shell (energy-level shell)
4624. Novels
This is about what American novel? A great coon dog and his master are wounded and doomed to a shared and terrible destiny. This is a classic tale about a young boy who must struggle with poverty and the trappings of sharecropper life.
Sounder
4625. Participles
What is the past participle of 'catch'?
caught
4626. Compensation Idioms
If you are getting paid much more than what your job is worth, you are on what kind of train?
gravy train
4627. Poetic Morals
This is the moral of what poem by John G. Saxe? So oft in theologic wars, The disputants, I ween, Rail on in utter ignorance Of what each other mean, And prate about an Elephant Not one of them has seen!
The Blind Men and the Elephant
4628. Caves
The Mark Twain Cave in Missouri became famous because of its description in what novel?
Tom Sawyer
4629. Wells
What force pressurizes the water in an artesian well?
gravity
4630. Lake Geography
What U.S. state is on the port side of a northbound ship on Lake Huron?
Michigan
4631. The Sun
Name the imaginary vertical line through the center of the Sun about which the Sun rotates.
axis
4632. Latin
What is Latin for 'little bear'?
Ursa Minor
4633. Traditions
What state celebrates both Lyndon Baines Johnson Day and San Jacinto Day?
Texas
4634. Folk Heroes
What American frontiersman was a celebrated Indian fighter, marksman, brawler, and a keelboatman on the Mississippi and Ohio rivers?
Mike Fink
4635. Explorer's Departings
On the homeward leg of his second voyage, Vitus Bering died of what vitamin deficiency disease common among sailors?
scurvy
4636. Folksongs
According to the folksong, who 'started out on de right hand,' while 'de steam drill started on de lef’?
John Henry
4637. Anthropology
Tools made of what began to emerge in the Paleolithic period?
stone
4638. Organs
This is about what organ? The outer sclera encloses the choroid, consisting of tissue filled with blood vessels. The innermost layer is the retina.
eye
4639. Pronouns
What are the four third-person pronouns in the subjective case?
he, she, it, they
4640. Ruminants
What is the term for food regurgitated from the first stomach to the mouth of a ruminant such as a giraffe, cow, or goat?
cud
4641. Waves
A wave is characterized by wavelength, speed, and what else?
frequency
4642. Density
Density may be measured in grams per cubic centimeter or in kilograms per what?
liter
4643. Snow
What do meteorologists call snow lifted off the surface by the wind to a height of two meters or more and carried about in sufficient density to restrict visibility?
blowing snow
4644. Mideast Regions
Name the hilly area on the border between Syria and Israel that Israel seized during the Six Day War of 1967.
Golan Heights
4645. Spits
When a spit reaches partly across the mouth of a bay, it is a bay-mouth ...
bar
4646. The Sound Barrier
Name the audible phenomenon that accompanies the breaking of the sound barrier by aircraft.
sonic boom
4647. Dangling Modifiers
What word seems to be modified by the opening phrase in this example? Delighting in an afternoon feeding frenzy, the orchard was a perfect place to consume frivolously.
orchard
4648. Prefixes
A lithotomy is the surgical removal of a stone from the urinary tract. A lithophyte is a polyp with a hard stony structure. What does the prefix in these words mean?
stone
4649. Bird Emblems
What bird was carried on the standards of the Romans?
eagle
4650. Aquatic Vertebrates
It has a deep groove running along the roof of its mouth which it can make into a tube by covering it with its flexible tongue. When it sees an insect on a plant, it squirts water which knocks the prey down. Name this fish.
archerfish
4651. Medieval Cities
Unfortunately, what problem common to many medieval European cities was greatly relieved by epidemics of bubonic plague?
overpopulation
4652. Industrial Revolution
These names are associated with the history of the development of what invention relevant to the Industrial Revolution? the Greek scientist Hero Denis Papin Thomas Newcomen James Watt
steam engine
4653. Breakers
As waves approach the shore and wave height increases, what other characteristic of waves decreases?
velocity (or wavelength)
4654. Propulsion
What propelling force is calculated as the product of the rate of mass discharge and the velocity of the exhaust gases relative to the vehicle?
thrust
4655. Minerals
Minerals can break either by fracturing or by what other process?
cleaving
4656. Crimes
What crime that occurs in retail stores is also known as a 'five-fingered discount'?
shoplifting
4657. Measurement Scales
The 'g scale' measures force by comparing it with the force due to what?
gravity
4658. Speech Sounds
What is the term for the special speech sounds formed by the adjacent vowels in these words? boil, loud, point, foil, oink
diphthongs
4659.
What kind of references was the truck carrying when it overturned on the road and the newspaper reported that onlookers were 'stunned, overwhelmed, startled, amazed, astonished, bewildered, and dumbfounded'?
thesaurus
4660. Commanders
George Washington was commander in chief of what army prior to 1784?
Continental Army
4661. Architecture
What is the collective name for minarets, ziggurats, campaniles, turrets, obelisks, pagodas, belfries, and steeples?
towers
4662. Abbreviated Abnormalities
For what personality disorder does the abbreviation stand in this? APD is a psychiatric disorder characterized by chronic and pervasive patterns of behavior that disregard and violate the rights of others.
antisocial personality disorder
4663. Digit Determination
The tens digit of a number is 3 less than the units digit and the sum of the digits is 11. What is the number?
47
4664. Biological Fuel
Like gasoline for a car, what sugar is the fuel for your body's cells?
glucose
4665. Early Science Fiction
During the 1600s, the astronomer Johannes Kepler wrote a book called 'The Dream' in which he imagined his mother flying to the Moon on broomstick. This imaginative description of life in space created problems for his mother, since it was used as evidence that she was a ...
witch
4666. Personifications
What did Emma Lazarus personify as a woman and the 'Mother of Exiles'?
United States (America)
4667. Floods
A flood level with a one percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year is known as what kind of flood?
100-year flood
4668. Wave Strength
How many times more energy is transported by a wave with an amplitude of 6 meters than one with an amplitude of 3 meters?
4 times
4669. The Mexican War
The series of battles in the Mexican War culminating in the Battle of Chapultepec is commemorated in what phrase of the U.S. Marine Corps Hymn?
Halls of Montezuma
4670. Remedies
An agent, remedy, or treatment that mitigates the effects of a poison or toxin is called an ...
antidote (antitoxin)
4671. Verbs
When you alphabetize all four-letter auxiliary verbs, which comes last?
will
4672. Punned Titles
This is a punned version of the title of a novel written by what American author? That Was Zen, This Is Tao
S.E. Hinton
4673. Advertising
A short, catchy song used in radio or television commercials is called a ...
jingle
4674. Communications
In 1858, Queen Victoria and President Buchanan exchanged messaged by means of the first transatlantic cable, the brainchild of what American merchant and financier?
Cyrus Field
4675. Symbols
In physics, 'c' denotes the speed of what?
light
4676. Seasonal Tales
This is from what story? Darkness is cheap, and Scrooge liked it.
A Christmas Carol
4677. Producers
The producers in ocean biomes are mainly microscopic photosynthetic algae called what?
phytoplankton (not plankton)
4678. Philosophy
What school of philosophy holds that all values are baseless and that nothing actually exists?
nihilism
4679. Lenses
What is the shape of a lens that spreads light?
concave
4680. Keeping the Peace
Peacekeepers of what international organization are known as the Blue Berets because of the color of their headgear?
United Nations
4681. Capital Namesakes
What capital city west of the Rockies was named for a trapper, guide, Indian agent, and soldier of the Western frontier who participated in the conquest of California?
Carson City
4682. Participles
What is the present participle of the verb 'munch'?
munching
4683. Vegetation
The vegetation in which biome consists mostly of mosses, lichens, grasses, and dwarf willows?
tundra
4684. Voting
Under what circumstance in an election is a plurality also a majority?
when there are only two choices
4685. Unhappy Endings
What work by Jon Krakauer tells of Chris McCandless' attempt to live off the land near Denali National Park and the discovery of his emaciated body in an old, abandoned bus?
Into the Wild
4686. Civil War Novels
Complete this title of a novel in which Jeff Davis Bussey ends up fighting for both sides at different times during the Civil War. Rifles for ...
Waite
4687. Ice Skating Physics
The increase in rotational speed of a spinning figure skater as the skater's arms are contracted is a result of conservation of what kind of momentum?
angular (rotational) momentum
4688. Liquids
What property of water prevents it from penetrating into tiny spaces such as pores in dirty clothing?
surface tension
4689. Literary Techniques
It may involve exaggeration, shifts in chronology, blending two people into one character, or departing from conventional rules of form and logic. This practice among writers is what kind of license?
poetic license
4690. Elements
What element comprises 49% of the weight of the Earth's crust and 28% of the volume of the Earth's atmosphere?
oxygen
4691. Cemeteries
In what state is the Gettysburg National Cemetery?
Pennsylvania
4692. Etymology
The term 'pedigree' is derived from the three Latin words 'grue' meaning 'crane,' 'de' meaning 'of,' and 'ped.' What does that root word indicate?
foot
4693. Inspirations
Robert Louis Stevenson cried out in terror one night and was awakened by his wife. He said, 'Why did you wake me? I was dreaming a fine bogey tale.' He then wrote nonstop for three days to produce what story?
The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde
4694. German Technology
Huge quantities of what gas were essential to Ferdinand von Zeppelin's vehicles?
hydrogen
4695. Named Latitudes
What is the name of latitude 23 degrees 26 minutes 16 seconds south?
Tropic of Capricorn
4696. Italian Towns
Name the Italian town in which a marble tower inclines nearly seventeen feet from the perpendicular.
Pisa
4697. Geological Procedures
Name the method by which a drill is used to remove a column of earth, rock, or ice.
coring
4698. Astronomers
Who in 1610 first observed sunspots?
Galileo
4699. Mosquitos
Name the three sections in the body of a mosquito.
head, thorax, abdomen
4700. Song Geography
Name the region referred to in this song lyric. Old times there are not forgotten
Dixie
4701. Constitutional Amendments
What amendment states this? In all criminal prosecutions the accused shall enjoy the right to a speedy and public trial by an impartial jury.
6th amendment
4702. Antecedents
What is the antecedent of the pronoun below? Although she was the place kicker, Margie was unanimously voted as homecoming queen and the person most likely to be abducted by Martians.
Margie
4703. Air Masses
What is the abbreviation for an air mass that forms over oceans?
m (for maritime)
4704. Light
Flash Mozzerelli's space ship is traveling at 46,500 miles per second. This is about what fraction of the speed of light?
114
4705. Colonial Commerce
Slaves and molasses were two of the three items exchanged in 'triangular trade.' What was the third?
rum
4706. Novels
This is from what Jack London story? Men, groping in the Arctic darkness, had found a yellow metal, and because steamship and transportation companies were booming the find, thousands of men were rushing into the Northland. These men wanted dogs, and the dogs they wanted were heavy dogs, with strong muscles by which to toil, and furry coats to protect them from the frost.
The Call of the Wild
4707. Pipe Problems
The amount of fluid a pipe can carry is proportional to the area of the cross section of the pipe opening. How many two-inch diameter pipes will be needed to carry the same amount of fluid as one six-inch
diameter pipe?
4708. International Proposals
Open treaties among the world's nations, recognition of the rights of neutrals, freedom of the high seas, free trade among all countries, reduced armaments, self-determination for all nations, and mediation of colonial claims were among the issues in what postwar plan presented by Woodrow Wilson?
Fourteen Points
4709. Weather Maps
You will see the letters 'H' and 'L' at the center of concentric isobars on a weather map. For what do these letters stand?
high and low (pressure)
4710. Insects
The bombyx mori produces in its cocoon a fine, soft, lustrous fiber used in what cloth?
silk
4711. Science Fiction
In what first novel by Vonnegut do engineers and executives take over America and attempt to completely automate the country?
Player Piano
4712. Terrorism
In the 1950s, Jomo Kenyatta was a tribal leader actively involved in organizing what terrorist group in Kenya?
Mau Mau
4713. Colloids
Smoke consists of solids dispersed in ...
gas
4714. Spoonerisms
What should the last two words in this sentence be if it were not spoonerized? There is no peace in a home where a dinner swells.
sinner dwells
4715. African Leaders
Haile Selassie fought against the invasion of his country by what European nation?
Italy
4716. Science Fiction
In Frank Herbert's 'Dune' series, what is another name for the planet Arrakis?
Dune (or Rakis)
4717. Fictional Officers
James Sandecker, James T. Kirk, and Horatio Hornblower share what military rank?
admiral
4718. Banking
Name the special container you can rent in a bank vault to hold valuable jewels, excess cash, or important documents.
safe (safety) deposit box
4719. Land Forms
What large, craterlike depression can be formed either by a violent volcanic explosion that ejects a vast quantity of material or by the collapse of a volcanic cone into an underground cavity left by the loss of magma?
caldera
4720. Artists
With what art form are these names associated? Frederic Bartholdi Giovanni Bernini Gutzon Borglum Auguste Rodin
sculpture
4721. Michigan Regions
Name the northern part of Michigan between Lake Superior and Lake Michigan.
Upper Peninsula
4722. Ossification
Something which has ossified has turned into what?
bone
4723. Multiple Meanings
What adjective completes this epitaph? Here lies Bill He always lied And he always will He lied once too often And now he lies ...
still
4724. 3
He entered the French army at 14 and rose to the rank of captain by age 19. He offered to serve in the Continental Army without pay and was placed on Washington's staff. Name this man who helped draft the French bill of rights.
Lafayette
4725. Rhyme
What is the rhyme scheme in this couplet? Know then thyself, presume not God to scan, The proper study of mankind is man.
aa
4726. Metals
The malleability and ductility of a metal is primarily dependent on two factors including pressure and what else?
temperature
4727. Steamboats
The first voyage of Fulton's Clermont was a round trip from New York City to what town and back?
Albany
4728. Officials
What is the title of an official who can also be referred to as the Bench?
judge
4729. Business History
In colonial times, the joint stock company was a forerunner of what modern business arrangement?
corporation
4730. Country Abbreviations
What other abbreviation was used for a country whose name was also abbreviated as C.C.C.P.?
U.S.S.R.
4731. Figurative Language
What two figures of speech are used in this example? Slowly, silently, now the moon Walks the night in her silver shoon.
personification, alliteration
4732. Wanton Arson
Troops from what country started some 650 oil fires in Kuwait in the 1990s?
Iraq
4733. O
What short story by O. Henry opens with this? One dollar and eighty-seven cents. That was all. And sixty cents of it was in pennies.
The Gift of the Magi
4734. Chlorine
All chlorine atoms contain 17 protons but many contain 18 neutrons while others contain 19 neutrons. The varieties of an element with different nuclear compositions are called what?
isotopes
4735. Ecology Vocabulary
What term refers to all of the flora and fauna of a geographic region or of a time period?
biota
4736. Archimedes Principle
If the weight of an object in a fluid is less than the weight of the fluid it displaces, what will the object do?
float
4737. Disasters
In 1980, an area extending outward ten kilometers was stripped of all vegetation. Downslope forests were leveled. From the air the leafless, scorched trunks looked like thousands of jackstraws strewn on the ground. What had erupted?
Mt. St. Helens
4738. History of Medicine
In 1971, U.S. doctors visited China to investigate reports of the success of an ancient Chinese practice of inserting needles into various parts of the body to produce anesthesia and relief from pain. Name this practice.
acupuncture
4739. Monuments
This is part of the inscription on a monument in what city in India? To the memory of the 123 persons who perished in the Black Hole prison of old Fort William in 1756.
Kolkata (Calcutta)
4740. The Fourteen Points
Woodrow Wilson's proposals included recommendations for adjusting postwar boundaries and for establishing new nations to replace the defunct Austro-Hungarian and what other empire?
Ottoman Empire
4741. Europeans
These are famous people from what country? Baruch Spinoza, Hieronymus Bosch, Peter Stuyvesant, Abel Tasman, Rembrandt van Rijn, Frans Hals
Netherlands (Holland)
4742. Nonfiction
These works all concern what war? With Charity for All The Impending Crisis Lee's Miserables Saving Savannah Fredericksburg! Fredericksburg!
Civil War
4743. Queens
Queen Victoria was the granddaughter of what British monarch who lost the American colonies?
George Ill
4744. Explorers
In 1498, shortly after leaving Trinidad, what explorer was the first European to see South America?
Christopher Columbus
4745. Fruits
The nectarine began as a mutation of what other fruit?
peach
4746. Westerns
These lines are from what western novel? -The older the violin, the sweeter the music. -If I had a mind to rent pigs, I'd be mighty upset. A man that likes to rent pigs won't be stopped.
Lonesome Dove
4747. Varied Climates
The climate of what Latin American nation ranges from the world's driest desert through a Mediterranean zone to a snowy Alpine landscape featuring glaciers and fiords?
Chile
4748. Disorders
Name the sudden, recurrent disorder of the brain characterized by abnormal electrical activity causing mental and physical dysfunction.
epilepsy
4749. 2
This is a verse from a song about what legendary being? So over I jumped and she pulled me down, down to her seaweed bed, / A pillow made of tortoise-shell she placed beneath my head, / She fed me shrimp and caviar upon a silver dish / From her head to her waist was just to my taste but the rest of her was a fish.
mermaid
4750.
American colonists said 'No taxation without representation,' which meant that colonists had no representation in what legislative body?
Parliament
4751. Solids
A rectangular solid has a length of 8 feet and a width of 6 feet. Find its height if its volume is 288 cubic feet.
6 feet
4752. Courts
Tangible objects and personal testimonies presented in a courtroom to support or refute an allegation are collectively known as ...
evidence
4753. Migrations
What birds found in North America and the Arctic migrate to Antarctica and back annually making a round trip of over 18,000 miles?
terns (Arctic terns)
4754. Asian Divisions
Korea was divided into two separate republics after World War II. What Southeast Asian country was partitioned in 1954 and then reunited in 1976?
Vietnam
4755. Racing
What kind of racing involves vehicles with elongated front-suspensions, light front wheels, oversize rear tires, and a straight course of 440 yards?
drag racing
4756. Drama
What term for an actor who overacts also indicates a cut of meat from a hog's hind leg?
ham
4757. Agriculture
What is the collective name for bulgar, amaranth, millet, rye, barley, and wild rice?
grains
4758. Minerals
What mineral that occurs as a native metal did medieval alchemists try to synthesize?
gold
4759. Mechanics
With what simple machine consisting of at least a grooved wheel and a rope does the load go up when you pull down?
pulley
4760.
Photosynthesis requires photosynthetic pigments, light energy, and raw materials including water and what gas?
carbon dioxide
4761. Art Forms
Name the traditional Javanese method of dyeing textiles using wax to resist the dye, thus leaving areas of the cloth in their original color.
batik
4762. Literature
This is from what work by Thomas Malory? Thenne within two yeres king Uther felle seke of a grete maladye. And in the meane whyle hys enemyes ursurpped upon hym, and dyd a grete bataylle upon his men, and slewe many of his peple.
Morte d'Arthur
4763. Isles
These are part of what country? Prince of Wales Island Banks Island Somerset Island Victoria Island Ellesmere Island
Canada
4764. Shelters
Most common in midwestern America, name the small underground structures built near homes to protect families in the event of tornadoes.
storm cellars
4765. Ships
They are flat bottomed, have high poops, and battened sails. Name these distinctly Chinese ships.
junks
4766. Unusual Statements
This is an example of what kind of statement? In this village, the barber shaves everyone who does not shave himself, but no one else.
paradox
4767. Documents
Delaware acted first. Pennsylvania did the same five days later followed by New Jersey, Georgia, Connecticut and Massachusetts. In 1788, Maryland, South Carolina and New Hampshire joined in. What document had been ratified?
U.S. Constitution
4768. Structures
These are all types of what structures? hurdle, electric, palisade, picket, split-rail, snow, chain-link, barbed wire, post-and-rail
fences
4769. Marine Enemies
Occasionally, a school of what kind of creatures will race through the water and smash their somewhat pointed snouts into a shark, killing it in a matter of minutes of battering-ram punishment?
dolphins (porpoises)
4770. Battles
When he said, 'Another such victory and we are ruined,' one of Santa Anna's officers was referring to a battle at what site?
Alamo
4771. Exercise
What common exercise is used to develop your abs?
sit-ups (crunches)
4772. Cylinders
What adjective describes a cylinder whose bases are not aligned one directly above the other?
oblique
4773. Poetic Accents
What is the first accented monosyllabic word in Poe's 'The Raven'?
Once
4774. Mammals
What carnivorous marsupial lives in the wild only on the island of Tasmania?
Tasmanian devil
4775. Volcanoes
What adjective indicates a volcano that is erupting or one that is considered likely to do so in the relatively near future?
active
4776. Constellations
'Sco' is the abbreviation for what constellation?
Scorpio
4777. Air Circulation
What is the name for a rising parcel of warm, less dense air that is produced by the heating of the Earth's surface?
thermal (updraft)
4778. Native Americans
Because they never surrendered to the American government, what tribe of the southeastern U.S. call themselves the 'Unconquered People'?
Seminoles
4779. Criminal Law
In criminal law, the carrying out of a death sentence is called ...
execution
4780. Ancient Empires
By 62 B.C., Macedonia, Asia Minor, Syria, Palestine, Egypt, and the North African coast were all part of what empire?
Roman Empire
4781.
Name the largest and most populous of the Greek islands.
Crete
4782. Writing
What literary technique is illustrated here? Jill wished she could rid herself of the sick feeling in her stomach that told her something terrible was just around the corner.
foreshadowing
4783. Weather
The chief areas of weather disturbances, figuratively called the battle zones of air masses, are called ...
fronts
4784. National Parks
The three U.S. national parks in the Sierra Nevada are Yosemite, Kings Canyon, and what other?
Sequoia
4785. Fables
A few words of wisdom are at the end of each of Aesop's fables. What is another name for such aphorisms?
morals
4786. Native American History
Annually, Shoshone Indians gathered at the foot of Shoshone Falls on the Snake River in what state during the salmon run?
Idaho
4787. Plumb Tuckered Out
Name the feeling of exhaustion or weariness resulting from prolonged exertion.
fatigue
4788. Anatomy
What part of the body is between the diaphragm and the pelvis?
abdomen
4789. Tissues
Phloem is a food conducting tissue in what botanical category that includes ferns and seed bearing plants?
vascular
4790. Research Designs
A double-blind control is used in many experiments to eliminate intervening variables and experimenter what?
bias
4791. Scientific Adjectives
What term used in the physical sciences means that a material such as silver or lead can be shaped by hammering?
malleable
4792. Frontier Justice
People who take the law into their own hands by trying and punishing suspects without legal authority are known as ...
vigilantes
4793. Terrifying Tales
This is from what story by Poe? He had a weak point - this Fortunato - although in other regards he was a man to be respected and even feared. He prided himself on his connoisseurship in wine.
The Cask of Amontillado
4794. Traitors
What term for a traitor who collaborates with an enemy occupying his country was taken from the name of a 20th-century Norwegian politician?
quisling
4795. Bodies of Water
What arm of the Atlantic is adjacent to Normandy?
English Channel
4796. Mirages
A type of mirage called a Fata Morgana was named after what legendary sorceress in the Arthurian legends?
Morgan le Fay
4797. Goddesses
Athena was the patroness of what ancient Greek city-state?
Athens
4798. Astronomy
What body in the solar system has these characteristics? granules convection zones prominences photosphere filaments spicules
Sun
4799. Physical Fitness
Abs is the abbreviation for what muscles?
abdominal muscles
4800. 4
A person interested in Rossby waves and Hadley cells is probably in what field of science?
meteorology
4801. Earthy Spheres
Name the sphere of the Earth composed of the crust and the brittle top portion of the mantle.
lithosphere
4802. Seas
What region of the North Atlantic is covered by floating seaweed that gives it its name?
Sargasso Sea
4803. Documents
Name the document prepared by the Plymouth colonists that laid the foundation for self-rule.
Mayflower Compact
4804. Probability
A box contains 3 black balls, 2 green balls, 6 yellow balls, and 8 clear balls. If one of them is randomly selected, what is the probability that it will not be a clear ball?
11/19
4805. Conquests
Alexander the Great's armies stopped their conquest of Asia after crossing what river that flows through India to the Arabian Sea?
Indus River
4806. Composer Quotations
What classical composer said this? For dramatic effectiveness, it seems to me that the best material I have yet put to music is 'Rigoletto.' It has the most powerful situations, variety, vitality, and pathos.
Giuseppe Verdi
4807. Slavery
In 1619, slavery began in the British colonies of North America when twenty Africans were first brought to what town in colonial Virginia?
Jamestown
4808. Legends
What legendary city of gold was believed by the 16th-century Spanish to exist somewhere in the area of the Orinoco and Amazon rivers?
El Dorado
4809. Nebulas
Collections of dust, gas, and ionized gases that emit their own light are known as what kind of nebulas?
emission nebulas
4810. State Nicknames
Which state is the Land of Lincoln?
Illinois
4811. Books
What book series includes these titles? The Book of Three The Black Cauldron The Castle of Llyr Taran Wanderer The High King
The Prydain Chronicles
4812. Rock Formations
What enormous rock formation in Wyoming resembles a gigantic tree stump?
Devils Tower
4813. Trade Barriers
In international trade, trade barriers that nations place on the quantity of imports or exports of specific goods are called ...
quotas
4814. Measurement of Heat
How many degrees Kelvin are between the melting point of ice and the boiling point of water?
100
4815. The Cabinet
Which cabinet department of the federal government manages the foreign affairs of the United States?
State Department
4816. Horror Stories
In what Stephen King story is Charlene McGee able to demonstrate pyrokinesis?
Firestarter
4817. Taxonomic Zoology
What is the next major subdivision above genus?
family
4818. Supreme Court Cases
What is the first name of the person this excerpt is about? The Court ruled that Scott's temporary residence outside Missouri did not bring about his emancipation under the Missouri Compromise, which the court ruled was unconstitutional as it would improperly deprive Scott's owner of his legal property.
Dred
4819. Book Series
What word completes the titles of these books? An Enemy at Green ... The River at Green ... The Stones of Green ... A Stranger at Green ... The Children of Green ... The Chimneys of Green ...
Knowe
4820. Ancient Wars
In the Peloponnesian War, Athens was defeated by what city-state to its south?
Sparta
4821. Sequence
An arithmetic sequence is 1 3 5 7 9. What type of sequence is represented by this? 2 4 8 16 32
geometric
4822. Electricity
Several electric lights are connected but one is accidentally broken. Right away, all the other lights also go out. How were these lights connected?
series
4823. Legendary Americans
John Luther Jones held what job at the time of his death?
engineer (railroad engineer)
4824. Lenses
What type of lens is typically used in beacons, lighthouses, spotlights, overhead projectors, solar cookers, and auto headlights?
Fresnel lens
4825. Zoological Classification
Barnacles, crabs, ticks, dragonflies, and centipedes all belong to what phylum?
Arthropoda (arthropod)
4826. Cities
These cities are in what state? Goldsboro Greensboro Asheville Winston-Salem Durham Raleigh
North Carolina
4827. Astrogeological Vocabulary
What adjective describes meteorites or asteroids containing an element with an atomic number of 6?
carbonaceous
4828. Cycles
The carbon cycle involves the storage and cyclic movement of organic and inorganic forms of carbon between the biosphere, lithosphere, hydrosphere, and what other sphere?
atmosphere
4829. Body Temperature
What four-syllable adjective indicates the condition of a person whose inner core body temperature is 88.6 degrees Fahrenheit?
hypothermic
4830. Mark Twain
What town, in a short story by Mark Twain, was corrupted when a sack of gold left at a bank by a stranger turns out to be filled with lead?
Hadleyburg
4831. Latin America
The capital city of what country is adjacent to the 'Lago de Managua'?
Nicaragua
4832. Amphibians
During what stage of their development do frogs and toads have no arms or legs?
tadpole (pollywog, larval)
4833. Ships of Olde
What kind of ships were used by Leif Ericson and the Vikings on their voyages of discovery and plunder?
longships (longboats)
4834. Former Dictators
Juan Peron was president and virtual dictator of what South American country?
Argentina
4835. Scary Stories
In Dean Koontz' novel, 'Watchers,' what kind of dog is Einstein?
golden retriever
4836. Emperors
After Constantine, the most famous Byzantine emperor was ...
Justinian
4837. Botany
This refers to what type of plant life? These plants are easy to distinguish by their fibrous roots, their jointed stems, and their narrow linear leaves.
grasses
4838. Calculus
In differential calculus, the numerical difference between two succeeding values of a variable is its ...
increment
4839. Wind
The prevailing winds of the polar region are easterlies while the prevailing winds of the middle latitudes are what?
westerlies
4840. Art Forms
What art form in sculpture is most similar to a portrait in painting?
bust
4841. Wordplay
These are examples of what form of wordplay? -The sixth sick sheik's sixth sheep's sick. -Freshly fried flying fish. -Which wristwatches are Swiss wristwatches? -Many an anemone sees an enemy anemone.
tongue twisters
4842. Humanitarian Missions
In 1993, eighteen U.S. soldiers were killed while searching for Mohamed Farrah Aidid and his lieutenants in Mogadishu, the capital of what country?
Somalia
4843. Races
A motorcyclist traveling at a speed of 65 mph goes after a car which has a head start of 2 hours. He overtakes the car in 3 hours. What was the speed of the car?
39 mph
4844. Fields of Scence
What field of science is directly concerned with addressing the question of whether or not there is life any place beyond Earth?
astrobiology
4845. Lakes
Located in the Great Rift Valley with a depth exceeding 4700 feet, name the deepest lake in Africa.
Lake Tanganyika
4846. Mosses
Mosses do not have any way to transport water through themselves and therefore must live in a damp environment. These life forms lack what kind of system present in higher plants?
vascular system
4847. African Sites
In what country would you find the Timbuktu World Heritage Site?
Mali
4848. Volcanoes
With a caldera larger than the state of Maryland, the most powerful volcano in the solar system is Loki
Patera on what moon of Jupiter?
4849. Clouds
Meteorologist Mamie Melrose just announced that she expects to see a stratus cloud close to the ground on Tuesday. What is she predicting?
fog
4850. Socrates
Although Socrates is regarded as the father of Western philosophy, he never committed his ideas to paper. Our knowledge of him comes from the writings of his contemporaries including Aristophanes, Xenophon, and what famous pupil of his?
Plato
4851. New Stamps
In 1996, a new stamp was unveiled honoring what Swedish diplomat who saved tens of thousands of Jews during World War II before disappearing into the Soviet penal system?
Raoul Wallenberg
4852. Vocal Music
These are famous examples of what kind of musical composition? --'Let's Call the Whole Thing Off' with Louis Armstrong and Ella Fitzgerald -'Islands in the Stream' with Kenny Rogers and Dolly Parton -'You Don't Bring Me Flowers' with Barbara Streisand and Neil Diamond
duet
4853. Wordplay
What is a hinky pinky for pasta torn into little pieces and thrown from the upper floors of buildings during parades?
spaghetti confetti
4854. Branches of Government
Which branch of the federal government is responsible for interpreting laws and resolving any conflicts which arise from them?
judicial branch
4855. Chemistry History
Karl Scheele argued that the atmosphere is composed of two gases. He called the one which supports combustion 'fire air,' which is oxygen. He called the other more abundant gas that inhibits combustion 'vitiated air,' which is what?
nitrogen
4856. 19th-Century Defeats
To whom does the pronoun refer in this excerpt? He might have been able to defeat the Russians had they fought, but as it was, his only enemies were cold, hunger, disease, and maddening raids of elusive Cossack warriors.
Napoleon Bonaparte
4857. Amendments
The passage of what amendment to the Constitution made continuation of the American Anti-Slavery Society unnecessary?
13th Amendment
4858. 2
To its west, Idaho borders what states?
Oregon, Washington
4859. Sea Songs
The fictional sea song, 'Dead Man's Chest,' first appeared in a novel by what British author?
Robert Louis Stevenson
4860. Literary Quotes
Name the work from which this line was taken. It was in Warwick Castle that I came across the curious stranger that I will talk about.
A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court
4861. Desert Dwellers
For 20,000 years, the San Bushmen with their click language have lived in what African desert?
Kalahari Desert
4862. Authors
What three sisters all wrote novels?
Bronte
4863. Museums
Opened in 1819 and a superb example of Spanish neoclassical architecture, name the major art museum in Madrid.
Prado
4864. Medical Malapropisms
What word did the nurse intend when she said this about a patient? His blood has too little hemogoblin.
hemoglobin
4865. Light
What property of matter prevents light from passing through it?
opacity
4866. Protagonists
These protagonists can be collectively described as what kind of heroes? Arthur Dent, Yossarian, Severus Snape, Sam Spade
antiheroes
4867. Homophones
Spell a noun indicating 'an embankment raised to prevent a river from overflowing' that is a homophone for a verb meaning 'to impose a tax'.
levee
4868. Holiday Hostilities
The October War of 1973 began when a coalition of Arab states launched a surprise attack on Israel on what day regarded as the most holy day in Judaism?
Yom Kippur
4869. Stars
Given clear skies, what category of stars that never set can be observed in the Northern Hemisphere every night of the year?
circumpolar stars
4870. Colonial Business Ventures
Chartered in 1627 in France, The Company of One Hundred Associates was established to capitalize on what business in the New World?
fur trading
4871. Enforced Relocations
What is the name for the forced moves of John Calvin from Switzerland to France, the Shah of Iran to the U.S., and Napoleon I from France to St. Helena?
exile
4872. Hormones
Parathormone regulates the body's calcium level. It is produced by which gland?
parathyroid
4873. Legislation
What action of a president to proposed legislation may be overridden by a two-thirds vote by a House of Congress?
veto
4874. Celluloid Characters
Name the movie western in which these characters appear. Sheriff Black Bart Mongo Lili Von Shtupp Hedley Lamarr Waco Kid
Blazing Saddles
4875. Quadrilaterals
The perimeters of two similar quadrilaterals are 24 and 30. One side of the smaller quadrilateral is 8.
The corresponding side of the larger figure is what?
4876. Forms of Government
In what form of government is power is exercised by elected representatives rather than directly by the people themselves?
republic
4877. American Poems
This is from what lengthy poem? 'T have slain the Mishe-Nahma, Slain the King of Fishes!' said he; 'Look! the sea-gulls feed upon him, Yes, my friends Kayoshk, the sea-gulls. Drive them not away, Nokomis, They have saved me from great peril In the body of the sturgeon, Wait until their meal is ended.'
Hiawatha
4878. Laws of Physics
Pascal's Law states that a change in pressure is transmitted equally to all parts of a confined what?
fluid (liquid)
4879. Hieroglyphics
What Egyptian hieroglyphic that symbolized eternal life was a kind of cross with a loop on top?
ankh
4880. Personality
What personality type is characterized by the direction of interest toward oneself and one's inner world of experiences?
introvert
4881. Half-life
If you had 32 grams of a radioactive beryllium isotope with a half-life of 13.8 seconds, how many grams of it would not be decayed after 41.4 seconds?
4 grams
4882. German Ships
The Tirpitz and Graf Spee were what kind of warships?
battleships
4883. Angles
What is the next quadrantal angle larger than 180 degrees?
270 degrees
4884. 4
In 1804, the Lewis and Clark expedition camped for a while at the confluence of the Kansas and Missouri rivers, the site of what modern city?
Kansas City
4885. Parodies
This is from a parody of what John Keats poem? My head aches, my hangover remains, my sense as though a quart of gas I drunk or chugged some kitchen cleanser to the drains. An hours passed, I know that I am sunk, I'm not in envious or happy lot.
Ode to a Nightingale
4886. Forms of Literature
What type of literature is intended to subvert the views of the reader and impress the views of the writer?
propaganda
4887. Parliamentary Acts
In 1774, the Quebec Act of the British Parliament guaranteed the free practice of what religion in the Province of Quebec?
Catholicism
4888. Animal Legs
How many more pairs of legs do decapods have in comparison to arachnids?
one more pair
4889. Vision
Presbyopia is a loss of accommodation that normally occurs over the age of 40 to 45 years. It is the result of diminished elasticity in the transparent, biconvex body of the eye between the iris and the vitreous humor called the ...
lens
4890. Feline Spelling
What unique spelling did William Blake use for the big feline 'in the forests of the night'?
tyger
4891. Phrases
What is the function of the phrase 'eating anchovies' in this example? Eating anchovies is always a pleasure.
subject of sentence
4892. Law Enforcers
Beginning in 1935, G-Men worked for what federal agency?
FBI
4893. Political Abbreviations
What military abbreviation referred to a zone between North and South Korea along the 38th parallel and a zone between North and South Vietnam along both sides of the 17th parallel?
DMZ
4894. Meteorological Banners
A warning for what kind of storm is indicated by two square red flags, one above the other, and each with a black square in the middle?
hurricane
4895. Technology
Name the technology that uses a light beam to carry information through very thin strands of glass or plastic.
fiber optics
4896. Abbreviations
Many forms require you to supply your DOB, which stands for what?
date of birth
4897. Valleys
What kind of steep valley that extends into the sea may be characterized by truncated spurs, hanging valleys, and high waterfalls?
fiord
4898. Ordinances
The Ordinance of 1787 divided U.S. public lands into square townships measuring how many miles on a
side?
4899. Energy
Name the most abundant fossil fuel in the U.S.
coal
4900. Spelling
What is the British spelling for 'theater'?
theatre
4901. Currency
In 2002, lire, francs, and marks were replaced by what other currency?
euros
4902. Hawaiian Geography
On what Hawaiian island does the Koolau Range catch the trade winds and form a backdrop for the city of Honolulu?
Oahu
4903.
Reminiscent of a large holiday bird, the phrase meaning to abruptly curtail one's use of drugs is to quit how?
cold-turkey
4904. Disorders
Bronchoconstriction occurs in what organs?
lungs
4905. Court Jargon
In a court of law, a legal claim is called a cause of what?
action
4906. Islands
The many small rocky islands that dot what sea adjacent to the Mediterranean are part of Greece?
Aegean Sea
4907. Legendary Kings
These works are all related to what monarch? Parzival The Once and Future King Idylls of the King Merlin, Lancelot, and Tristram The Sword in the Stone The Defense of Guinevere
King Arthur
4908. World Regions
Name the general region in which these countries are located. Iran, Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Lebanon, Turkey, Syria, Israel, Jordan, Iraq
Middle East (Mideast)
4909. Algebraic Processes
Name the process of moving a quantity from one side of an equation to the other side by changing its sign of operation.
transposition
4910. Government
What is the general term for a level of government smaller than a U.S. state?
local government
4911. Ants
As with bees, fertile female ants are called queens and fertile male ants are called what?
drones
4912. Flying Homonyms
What term for a soaring raptor may also indicate a cloth-covered toy flown in the wind at the end of a long string?
kite
4913. Legends
Who was Robin Hood's girlfriend?
Marian
4914. Fuel Cells
Fuel cells use two elements as their fuel. Name either of these.
oxygen, hydrogen
4915. Disasters
This is about a disaster that devastated what American city in the early 20th century? The hills rolled like great billows and cracked open, houses sank between seven and eight feet in places. All the big cheap lodging houses collapsed with all the people in them. Then the fire which started in one hundred places at once quickly burnt-up the dead and injured.
San Francisco
4916. Congress
The 20th Amendment requires Congress to convene by noon of the third day of what month each year?
January
4917. Simultaneity
If it is impossible for two events to occur at the same time, such as getting both heads and tails in a single coin flip, the events are said to be mutually ...
exclusive
4918. Sentence Parts
What is the direct object in this line? What remarkable feats the Uzbekistani contortionist performed!
feats
4919. Bad Air
Because of its location in a highland bowl, cold air sinks down onto what city, trapping industrial and vehicle pollution below, and turning it into the most smog-plagued city of Latin America?
Mexico City
4920. Tobacco
Researchers have found that in addition to the threats of lung cancer and heart disease, smoking also increases the risk of losing what sensation?
hearing
4921. European History
The Middle Ages began about the same time that what powerful ancient civilization fell?
Roman
4922. Bays
In what bay is Alcatraz?
San Francisco Bay
4923. American Metropolises
What U.S. city is on the Potomac River between Maryland and Virginia?
Washington D.C.
4924. Novels
James Fenimore Cooper's 'The Last of the Mohicans' is set during what war?
French and Indian War
4925. Plant Growth
Most plants grow from the tip, but herbivores like bison and wildebeests are assured of a continued food supply because what category of plants grows from the base of the stems?
grasses
4926. Mining
Many copper deposits are disseminated throughout an enormous body of igneous rock, requiring miners to excavate tremendous quantities of material. What type of mine is typically used in this situation?
open-pit
4927. Percentage Error
What is the percentage error to three significant figures if an angle that is actually 60 degrees is erroneously measured as 62 degrees?
3.33%
4928. American Novels
This line is from what novel by Nathaniel Hawthorne? No man, for any considerable period, can wear one face to himself and another to the multitude, without finally getting bewildered as to which may be the true.
The Scarlet Letter
4929. A Set of Points
What is the locus of points in a plane equidistant from the sides of an angle?
the angle bisector (line that bisects the angle)
4930. Printing
What is the name for a complete set of printing characters of a given size and design?
font
4931. On the Scales
Weightlessness occurs in an orbiting spacecraft. The correct phrase for this state is ...
free fall
4932. Australian Animals
What animal, similar to a kangaroo since it also has a pouch, is about the size of a large dog but has an appearance more like that of a bear and lives in underground tunnels?
wombat
4933. Poisoning
These are things you can do to avoid what kind of poisoning? -Never burn charcoal inside a home or tent. -Never leave a car running inside a garage. -Never run a generator in an enclosed space.
carbon monoxide poisoning
4934. Probability
In a bag you have 10 black marbles and 5 red ones. For 90 times you pick a marble from the bag and then put it back and shake up the bag. Out of all your tries, you will probably pick about how many black marbles?
60
4935. Thoughts on Democracy
According to George Bernard Shaw, what form of government 'ensures we shall be governed no better than we deserve'?
democracy
4936. Anatomical Adjectives
Distal anatomical structures are farthest from the body's midline. What adjective indicates structures closer to the body's midline?
medial
4937.
The eight sharp front teeth are called ...
incisors
4938. Poetic Photography
What term used early in Poe's 'The Raven' for a hinged window covering is also the name of a device on cameras that controls the duration of a photographic exposure?
shutter
4939. Age Problems
Carol is 22 years older than Beulah. When Beulah is as old as Carol is now, she will be three times her present age. How old is Carol now?
33
4940. Food Etymology
When the Duc de Richelieu captured Port Mahon in Minorca, he needed food. He took some oil, vinegar, egg yolk, salt, and pepper and beat it into a sauce which he named after the port he had captured. That sauce is now known as ...
mayonnaise
4941. Charcoal
Charcoal heated in steam and air is free of tarry impurities. Its porosity is increased and it has remarkable absorbing power. Such charcoal is ...
activated
4942. Idioms
What verb is missing in these idioms? ---- shop the ---- of the town ---- through one's hat ---- turkey straight ----
talk
4943. Colonial Founders
Providence was to Roger Williams as New Amsterdam was to ...
Peter Minuit
4944. Atoms
You have a neutral atom with 18 electrons. What is its atomic number?
18
4945. Recluses
What literary recluse of Walden Pond did not approve of slavery or the Mexican War?
Henry Thoreau
4946. History of Aviation
Name the site from which the Wright brothers made their first historic flight in their Flyer.
Kitty Hawk
4947. Antonyms
Euphony and cacophony indicates opposite kinds of
sounds (tones, etc.)
4948. Numbers
What is the first cardinal number in 'The Midnight Ride of Paul Revere'?
15
4949.
He said, 'The people of Nebraska are for free silver. Therefore I am for free silver. I'll look up the reasons later.' Name this congressman known as the Great Commoner.
William Jennings Bryan
4950. Physical Processes
The taking up of a gas by a solid or liquid, or the taking up of a liquid by a solid, is called what?
absorption
4951. Covalent Chemistry
What is another name for covalent compounds containing carbon?
organic compounds
4952. Political Factions
To what political party did George Washington belong?
no party
4953. Distinctive Destinations
A trip to Predappio, the birthplace and burial site of what dictator, is a popular pilgrimage for Italian Neo-Fascists?
Benito Mussolini
4954. Square Root Equations
What is the value of x if the square root of x equals 2/5?
4/25
4955. Ancient Literature
These tales were written in what ancient civilization? King Neferkare and General Sasenet Tale of the Court of King Cheops
Egypt (Middle Kingdom)
4956. Subduction
The volcanoes of Chile result from the subduction of what plate beneath the South American plate?
Nazca plate
4957. Gerunds
What are the gerunds in this line? A man has more fun wishing for the things he hasn't got than enjoying the things he has got.
wishing, enjoying
4958. Ambiguity
State a four-word ambiguous sentence that could have both of these meanings. -Those are some apples that are better cooked than eaten fresh. -Those are some people who are preparing apples through application of heat.
They are cooking apples.
4959. Pandemics
What disease, pandemic in sub-Saharan Africa, is expected to kill some 52 million people within the first 15 years of the 21st century?
AIDS
4960. Freedom from Danger
The condition of a nation's safety from threats is called national what?
security
4961. Ceramic Limericks
What ceramics term completes this limerick? On this clay's classy surface (it's glazed) Is a maze of small cracks (I'm amazed!) Are these flaws in the glass? Is this art, or a farce? No, it's porcelain, crackled or ...
crazed
4962.
What major sea that is named for an extensive archipelago is west of the Mariana Islands?
Philippine Sea
4963. Rhyme
What is the rhyme scheme in this verse by Thomas Hardy? We stood by a pond that winter day, And the sun was white, as though chidden of God, And a few leaves lay on the starving sod; They had fallen from an ash, and were gray.
abba
4964. Choruses
What are the first words of the chorus which follows these lyrics? As I was walking down the street, Down the street, Down the street, A pretty gal I chanced to meet Under the silvery moon.
Buffalo Gals
4965. Environmental Disasters
The worst oil spill in history occurred in 1991 when the military forces of what country intentionally opened valves on hundreds of oil wells and pipelines and released more than 1.3 million tons of oil into the Persian Gulf?
lrag
4966. Central Characters
Who is the central character in these novels? Diamonds are Forever You Only Live Twice Goldfinger
James Bond (007)
4967. Cynical Quotes
James Thurber alluded to whose original quote when he wrote this? You can fool too many of the people too much of the time.
Abraham Lincoln
4968. Regional Instruments
What aerophone that is a curved wooden horn up to 20 feet in length is associated with the mountains of Switzerland?
alpenhorn
4969. Binomials
A(X+Y) =...
AX + AY
4970. Africa
Egypt, Eritrea, and what other African country border the Red Sea?
Sudan
4971. Polygons
When a 24-inch piece of wire is bent into the shape of an equilateral dodecagon, each side has a length of
---- inches.
4972. Storms
Of the 20th-century's ten deadliest storms, seven struck at the head of what enormous Asian bay?
Bay of Bengal
4973. Art History
What is the French term for those innovative artists who are 'ahead of their time' and who establish new directions for others to follow?
avant-garde
4974. Color Displays
The production of lustrous and continually changing colors as light plays on mother-of-pearl or soap bubbles is called what?
iridescence (opalescence)
4975. Exiles
Exiles made up the attacking force in a failed Caribbean invasion of 1961 at what bay?
Bay of Pigs
4976. Songs
What shoe size did Clementine wear according to the song?
number nine
4977. Ecological Tragedies
During the opening weeks of the 1991 war in Iraq, an enormous oil slick was intentionally released into what body of water?
Persian Gulf
4978. Moving Water
A pipe or channel designed to transport water from a remote source, usually by gravity, is called an ...
aqueduct
4979. Motion
What phenomenon is defined as the capacity for producing motion?
energy
4980. Geographical Namesakes
'Moor' comes from the Mauri, a people in northwestern Africa. What African nation was named after them?
Mauritania
4981. Electricity
A charge passes through a wire in the form of what kind of subatomic particles?
electrons
4982. Prime Numbers
The next largest prime number after 181 is ...
191
4983. Taxonomy
Which taxonomic classification consists of related classes of living things?
phylum
4984. Paintings
The marine artist, Robert Wyland, is famed for his 100 large, outdoor paintings of whales, executed on the walls of buildings in 13 countries. These are examples of what kind of paintings?
murals
4985. Electricity
The buildup of electric charge on the surface of objects is what kind of electricity?
static electricity
4986. Prefixes
What is a Latin prefix with the same meaning as the Greek prefix 'hemi-'?
semi-, demi-
4987. Figurative Language
What figure of speech is used repeatedly in this tale? Well now, one winter it was so cold that all the geese flew backward and all the fish moved south and even the snow turned blue. Late at night, it got so frigid that all spoken words froze solid afore they could be heard. People had to wait until sunup to find out what folks were talking about the night before.
hyperbole (exaggeration)
4988. Ship Songs
What is the complete name of the ship mentioned in this verse? It's of an American frigate the 'Richard' by name / Mounted forty-four guns, and from New York she came. / A-cruising down the channel of Old England's fame / With a noble commander, Paul Jones was his name.
Bonhomme_ Richard
4989. Silly Acronyms
What make of car could be an acronym for 'Very Odd Looking Vehicular Object'?
Volvo
4990. Synonyms in Physics
The center of attraction of a body is the same as its center of ...
gravity
4991. Organ Transplants
The recipient in an organ transplant gets the new organ from another person. What is the term for the person providing the organ?
donor
4992. Mountain Ranges
You are sailing through what strait if you look south and see the Atlas Mountains?
Strait of Gibraltar
4993. Migrators
What Arctic bird is the world's undisputed migration champion?
(Arctic) tern
4994. A Little Horse, of Course
What is another name for the 'dawn horse'?
eohippus
4995. Symbiosis
Symbioses have been classified into three general types including commensalism, parasitism, and what other?
mutualism
4996. Plants
Plants whose natural habitat is water are described by what adjective?
aquatic
4997. Early American Settlements
Name either of the first two colonial towns established in Connecticut.
Hartford, New Haven
4998. First Ladies
What first lady said this when they returned to the nation's capital? The enemy cannot frighten a free people. We shall rebuild Washington.
Dolley Madison
4999. Assassinations
Name the two U.S. presidents assassinated in the 20th century.
William McKinley, John Kennedy
5000. Cryptographic Sentences
Decode this sentence and tell what the dancer is wearing. By grnine luck, however, he two day met an intoxicnineing, tenteen year old ballet dancer, clad in an abbrevinined threethree.
tutu
5001. Proteins
The properties of a protein are determined by its particular sequence of what?
amino acids
5002. Riflemen
This is about what gunman? On the sixth floor, facing on Elm Street, a window was open. A man crouching there with a mail order rifle looked down into the open car as it moved along. Then he fired three bullets in less than eight seconds.
Lee Harvey Oswald
5003. Rifts
A major, lengthy fissure in Iceland is believed to be a portion of what undersea ridge that runs more than 8000 miles?
Mid-Atlantic Ridge
5004. Political Appointments
What system of executive appointments championed by Andrew Jackson is linked with this quote? To the victor go the spoils.
spoils system (patronage)
5005. It's Really a Pain
Name the painful, involuntary muscle contractions thought to be associated with dehydration, low potassium, calcium, or sodium levels, or low glucose levels in the body.
cramps
5006. Capital Cities
What capital of a western state was named after an Indian tribe?
Cheyenne
5007. Sayings
According to the proverb, what do not make the man?
clothes
5008. Historical Periods
These titles are about what period in European history? Heraldry The Knights Tournaments Living in Castle Times The Crusades and the Crusader States
medieval (Middle Ages)
5009. Big Snakes
Name the large semiaquatic, constricting snakes of the boa family that live in tropical South America and may reach lengths of over eight meters.
anacondas
5010. Alliterative Cliches
What three-word alliterative expression applies to one who has been through some misadventure and emerged unharmed and intact?
safe and sound
5011. Myths
What substance did Daedalus use to affix feathers to himself and his son, Icarus, to make wings?
wax
5012. Early U
The Northwest Ordinance delineated the rules for governing the Old Northwest, an area lying north of the Ohio River and east of what other river?
Mississippi
5013. Homographs
What homograph can mean 'to throw water out' or 'money paid for a person's release from jail'?
bail
5014. Capital Crimes
These people were executed for committing what infraction? John Huss, Girolamo Savonarola, William Tyndale, Joan of Arc
heresy
5015. Epitaphs
What is the last word in this epitaph supposedly taken from a hypochondriac's tombstone? I told you I was ...
sick
5016. Agricultural Tools
While a sickle has a short handle and a relatively short, semicircular blade, what other agricultural implement used for mowing and reaping has a long bent handle and a long, curved, single-edged blade?
scythe
5017. Perilous Plights
The Defenestrations of Prague occurred in 1419 and 1618. Defenestration means that people do what to a person?
throw him out of a window
5018. Beetle Flight
When a beetle flies, its hindwings provide thrust while its forewings provide what else?
lift
5019. Ligaments
In what part of the body are these structures located? anterior cruciate ligament lateral collateral ligament posterior cruciate ligament medial collateral ligament patellar ligament
knee
5020. Explorers
He was born in Florence in 1452 and worked in the Seville business that fitted out Columbus' second expedition. He led four voyages to the New World and touched the mainland a few weeks before Cabot and fourteen months before Columbus. It was not without reason that Waldseemuller in 1507 proposed to call the new continent by his name. Who was he?
Amerigo Vespucci
5021. Ears
In which section of the ear are the eardrum, hammer, and stirrup located?
middle ear
5022. The Constitution
The federal supremacy clause is in which article of the Constitution?
Article VI
5023. Campaign Pledges
What six words, used in his 1988 presidential campaign, often came back to haunt George Bush in 1992?
Read my lips. No new taxes.
5024. Fictional Quotes
What fictional character says this? I was exceedingly surprised with the print of a man's naked foot on the shore.
Robinson Crusoe
5025. Force
You pull on a 50-foot rope tied to a tree. If the force on the rope 5 feet from the tree is 30 newtons, what is the force on the rope 45 feet from the tree?
30 newtons
5026. Pop Song Homonyms
What word that describes the most memorable or catchy part of a song is a homonym for a small, curved metal device used in angling?
hook
5027. Plurals
Wives are to wife as data are to what?
datum
5028. Traditions
What day celebrated annually that inspired the Clean Air Act and the Clean Water Act promotes ecology, heightens awareness of pollution, and encourages respect for the environment?
Earth Day
5029. Presidential Positions
Shortly after becoming president, Warren Harding was rejecting what proposed international organization when he said, 'We seek no part in directing the destinies of the world.'
League of Nations
5030. Knighthood
What title is carried by a knight?
sir (or don)
5031. Poetic Characters
Who is the central character in the poem from which these lines were taken? Saw the firefly, Wah-wah-taysee, Flitting through the dusk of evening, With the twinkle of its candle Lighting up the brakes and bushes ...
Hiawatha
5032. Burundi
Approximately 85% of the population of Burundi consists of people of what tribe?
Hutu
5033. Riverside Capitals
What state capital is adjacent to the Willamette River?
Salem
5034. Federal Meetings
In 1791, George Washington met twice with his department heads, thus establishing a precedent for what kind of meetings?
cabinet meetings
5035. Zoological Structures
In reptiles, birds, insects, and fish, what is the usual name for the zygote that results from fertilization of an ovum?
egg
5036. German
Translate these German words. blaue Blume
blue flower
5037. Physiological Prefixes
Most people have never seen the unusual word 'hemopoiesis' before. But just on the basis of its prefix you should know that it has something to do with what?
blood
5038. Plant Reproduction
Name the dust-like fertilizing male cells of gymnosperms and angiosperms.
pollen
5039. Ancient Messages
Who sent this back to his home in Europe? Veni, vidi, vici.
Julius Caesar
5040. The Supreme Court
In the decision-making process of the Supreme Court, the opinion of which justice carries the most weight?
none (All have an equal vote.)
5041. Historical Valleys
In 1777, eleven thousand men of the American army spent the long winter on the banks of the Schuylkill River in Pennsylvania in what valley?
Valley Forge
5042. Structures
These are parts of what kind of structures? piers sluice gates spillways taintor gates plunge pools fish ladders
dams
5043. Political Philosophy
Complete this quote by Karl Marx. The class struggle necessarily leads to the dictatorship of the ...
proletariat
5044. Months
What month did T.S. Eliot describe in these words? ... the cruelest month, breeding Lilacs out of the dead land, mixing Memory and desire, stirring Dull roots with spring rain.
April
5045. Failed Colonies
Name the first English colony in the New World.
Roanoke
5046. Hawaiian Wildlife
The Hawaiian humuhumunukunukuapuaa is what kind of animal?
fish
5047. Colonial Publications
What influential pamphlet published in 1776 included these sections? -Of the Origin and Design of Government in General -Of Monarchy and Hereditary Succession -Thoughts on the Present State of American Affairs -Of the Present Ability of America
Common Sense
5048. Pronouns
What pronoun meets these criteria? -third person -singular -nominative -masculine
he
5049. Rock Fragments
Everything from large blocks and bombs to scoria, ash and fragments of volcanic rock blasted into the air by explosions or carried upward by hot gases or lava fountains is collectively known as ...
tephra
5050. Cinematic Techniques
What is the cinematic term for animation of models made of plasticine or clay?
claymation
5051. Art Media
With what medium is the artist working if he is engaged in these activities? pulling up centering slabbing wedging cutting off
clay (ceramics)
5052. 5
What topic is missing in this passage? During the day and night I talked much with John Brown, and found him as brave as a man could be, and sensible upon all subjects except ----, upon which he was a religious fanatic.
slavery
5053.
The European hedgehog most closely resembles what North American mammal?
porcupine
5054. Battles
What battle marked the farthest northern advance of Confederate forces during the Civil War?
Gettysburg
5055. Adjectives
What are the two superlative forms of 'remorseful'?
least remorseful, most remorseful
5056. Emperors
The emperor who founded Alexandria came from small but militarily strong country?
Macedon (Macedonia)
5057. Machines
With regard to machines such as levers and pulleys, the weight of the object being lifted is called the ...
load
5058.
The term comes from a Scottish town famed for its textile production. What adjective indicates a fabric figured with a pattern of colorful, curved droplet shapes?
paisley
5059. Energy
This is about what type of energy resource? In Italy, Mexico, New Zealand, and Iceland, steam or superheated water trapped in layers of hot volcanic rock is piped out to turbines that generate electricity.
geothermal
5060. Lake Locations
Lake St. Clair is between which two of the Great Lakes?
Huron, Erie
5061. Trees
It is produced by the tree 'hevea brasiliensis.' It was first used by the Indians of South America. Name this milky fluid which is the raw material for natural rubber.
latex
5062. United Nations Agencies
What is defined by the W.H.O. as a state of complete physical and social well being, and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity?
health
5063. Economic Systems
Name the economic system in Europe during the Middle Ages based on the holding of land in fief.
feudalism
5064. Picturesque Places
What site in Arizona contains one of the world's largest and most beautiful concentrations of permineralized wood?
Petrified Forest
5065. History of Agriculture
The plantations of the Old South in America were somewhat analogous to what land divisions of medieval Europe?
manors
5066. Religions
What religious sect takes its name from the 17th-century Swiss Mennonite bishop, Jakob Ammann?
Amish
5067. Motors
What is the efficiency of an electric motor that consumes 500 watts of electricity to provide 400 watts of useful mechanical power?
8 (or 80%)
5068. Citadels
What citadel in Moscow is the center of the Russian government and was formerly the headquarters of the Soviet government?
Kremlin
5069. Homophones
What words in this sentence would be found on a list of homophones? The flea bite did not faze him.
flea, bite, not, faze, him
5070. Insects
The transformation of an insect from the larval stage to the adult stage of life is called ...
metamorphosis
5071. Ancient Metallurgy
Early metalworkers poured melted copper into molds to make swords and daggers. Later, they added tin to make what much harder alloy?
bronze
5072. Capital Losses
The IRS limits capital losses to a total deduction of $3000 each year. So, if you lose $7000 this year selling out an investment, how much of that loss must be carried forward?
$4000
5073. Ancient Literature
Great Homeric epics were written in what language?
Greek
5074. Fossils
Petrifaction or permineralization produces what kind of wood?
petrified wood
5075. Atlantic Sailing
It is easier to sail from Europe to North America by first going south of 30 degrees north latitude and then taking advantage of what winds that blow toward the Caribbean?
trade winds
5076. Geological Formations
Derived from a French word meaning fish bone, what is the term for a jagged, narrow ridge that separates two adjacent glacial valleys or cirques?
arete
5077. Biographies
The recent work, 'It's Not About the Bike: My Journey Back to Life,' was written by what cycling champion who returned to the sport after his advanced cancer had been successfully treated?
Lance Armstrong
5078. Matter
Matter consists of elements, compounds, and mixtures. Which of these may be homogeneous or heterogeneous?
mixtures
5079. Lush Parks
What American national park is a vast complex of subtropical wetlands and coastal-marine ecosystems featuring fresh and saltwater marshes, hardwood hummocks, pine rocklands, and mangrove forests?
Everglades National Park
5080. Fields of Science
Those who design storage tanks, dams, bulkheads, and hydraulic machinery must know about the behavior of liquids at rest. Name this scientific field.
hydrostatics
5081. Waterway Formation
Around 10,000 years ago, the British Isles were part of mainland Europe. As the ice sheet melted, a lake formed in the southern part of what is now the North Sea. The outflow channel from the lake entered the Atlantic near Dover and Calais. Around 6500 B.C., catastrophic erosion swept away the chalk to create what channel?
English Channel
5082. Symbols
What is the meaning of the letter within a circle on a publication? MoM when it appears
copyright
5083. Shinto
Amaterasu, the sun goddess, is a principal Shinto deity. The Japanese emperor was regarded as a direct divine descendent of Amaterasu until 1946, when what emperor disavowed his divinity?
Hirohito
5084. Forests
The largest tropical rain forests in the Western Hemisphere are located in the three countries of Brazil, Peru, and what other?
Colombia
5085. Famous Theaters
The Globe Theater was in the shape of what regular geometric polygon?
octagon
5086. Life
Together, the flora and fauna of a region make up the region's ...
biota
5087. Diseases
Another name for coal miner's disease is ...
black lung (pneumoconiosis)
5088. Cool Poetry
What holiday is mentioned in 'The Cremation of Sam McGee'?
Christmas
5089. Hexagons
The measure of each interior angle of a regular hexagon is how many degrees?
120
5090. Drainages
Into what body of water does the runoff from the eastern slope of the Great Dividing Range flow?
Pacific Ocean (or Tasman Sea)
5091. Asteroids
What soft, white, ductile, metallic element and member of the platinum group of metals was named after the asteroid Pallas?
palladium
5092. Arctic Mammals
In summer they are brown but in winter they are all white. Name these small mouse-like mammals that live in the tundra.
lemmings
5093. The Mideast
Yassir Arafat was an important figure in the leadership of what Mideast people?
Palestinians
5094. Stands
What state is immediately west of the state in which Custer made his last stand?
Idaho
5095. Explorers
In 1778, Captain James Cook and his men arrived in the Hawaiian islands aboard two ships, the Resolution and the ...
Discovery
5096. Trails
The Chisholm Trail was a major route for cattle ranchers to drive their cattle from Texas to railroads in what state?
Kansas
5097. Frivolous Philosophy
Medieval scholastics allegedly had prolonged arguments about how many angels could do what on the head of a pin?
dance (sit)
5098. Vonnegut
The title of what Kurt Vonnegut novel came from the name of a game played with a loop of string?
Cat's Cradle
5099. Slopes
What is the slope of the line described below? 3x + 4y = -24
-3/4
5100. Plateaus
Covering much of four western U.S. states, what is the largest plateau in North America?
Colorado Plateau
5101. Asian Intervention
Name the last nation before the U.S. to insert a substantial military force into Afghanistan.
Soviet Union (U.S.S.R.)
5102. Root Words
What is the meaning of the root word in the following terms? post meridian dial diary diurnal
day
5103. Consecutive Integers
Find two consecutive integers such that the sum of the first and the square of the second is 19.
3, 4 (or -6, -5)
5104. Science Fiction
In Arthur Clarke's short story, 'The Sentinel,' man reaches the Moon and finds a relic of an ancient alien race which does nothing but give off a regular signal. This story-line became the core idea of what science fiction movie?
2001: A Space Odyssey
5105. Disease Transmission
What creatures are vectors for West Nile virus, dengue fever, malaria, and yellow fever?
mosquitoes
5106. Paintings
Paintings of individual, undraped human figures are called what?
nudes
5107. Elements
An atom containing one proton is a hydrogen atom and an atom containing 6 protons is a carbon atom. What kind of atom contains 8 protons?
oxygen
5108. Verbs
What must a transitive verb have that an intransitive verb always lacks?
an object
5109. Seafloor Spreading
Name the long, narrow sea adjacent to Mexico that was created by seafloor spreading.
Sea of Cortes (Gulf of California)
5110. Cacti
While thorns are modified branches or stems, cactus spines are modified what?
leaves
5111. Explorers
Name the best-known American explorer to begin a journey from the Ross Ice Shelf.
Richard Byrd
5112. Algebraic Fractions :
X divided by PQ/4 equals 4X divided by what?
PQ
5113. Tornadoes
What can be said about the air pressure in a tornado?
It is low.
5114. Asian Family Members
What kindred relationship did Kublai Khan have to Genghis Khan?
grandson
5115. Sports Metaphors
What word should have ended this commentary about a foot race? Roberts has almost caught Jones. He's breathing down his throat.
neck
5116. Treaties
Mexico recognized the independence of Texas according to the terms of what treaty?
Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo
5117. Numismatics
A discontinued $1 coin bore the image of what American feminist leader and suffragist?
Susan B. Anthony
5118. Shoals
Name the extensive area of shoals off southeast Newfoundland where the Labrador Current and Gulf Stream merge.
Grand Banks
5119. Weathering
Hydration is the process by which what substance combines chemically with substances in rock?
water
5120. Figurative Writing
What two figures of speech are used in this couplet? The Roman Road runs straight and bare As the pale parting-line of hair.
alliteration, simile
5121. Nature
What natural phenomenon is described by this passage? In a few microseconds the channel rises to a local temperature of 10,000 degrees C sending out a violent quasi-cylindrical pressure wave.
lightning (or thunder)
5122. Losses
What was ultimately lost for the want of a nail, the want of a horseshoe, the want of a horse, and the want of a rider?
a kingdom
5123. Skin
Tiny openings in the skin through which perspiration is released are called ...
pores
5124. Memory
Some people have the ability to retain visual images so sharp that they can be scanned and described in detail long after the original perception. Psychologists refer to this as what type of imagery?
eidetic
5125. Stock Phrases
During the 1990s, the U.S. media continually associated what country with this phrase? weapons of mass destruction
Iraq
5126. Mammals
Name the small, burrowing, herbivorous, very short-tailed rodents that live in tundra biomes.
lemmings
5127. Basketball Positions
Most basketball teams consist of one center and two guards and what other two positions?
forwards
5128. Computing
What in computing is a part of a record containing a specific item of data?
field
5129. Explorers
Whose 19th-century expeditions to the Wind River chain of the Rockies, to the Great Basin, and to the Sierra Nevada earned him the sobriquet, 'the Pathfinder'?
John C. Fremont
5130. Novels
This is from what story? 'Blow the conch,' whispered Piggy. 'If you don't blow, we'll soon be animals.'
Lord of the Flies
5131.
If x is multiplied by 5/4, it will change from 16 to 20 or from ---- to 55.
44
5132. Island Partitions
In 1921, the Irish Free State was established consisting of 26 Irish counties. Six counties in Ulster remained part of the United Kingdom and became collectively known as what?
Northern Ireland
5133. Pronouns
Restate this sentence using a first-person singular pronoun. She is pretty and witty and bright.
| am pretty and witty and bright.
5134. Gases
A gas sample occupying a volume of 12.3 liters weighed 9.3 grams at a pressure of 750 torr when its temperature was 450 degrees K. What is its volume when its temperature is 300 degrees K?
8.2 liters
5135. Sculptures
A statue of what mythical Greek warrior depicts him attempting to pull an arrow from his heel?
Achilles
5136. Winds
The Great Basin and the upper Mojave Desert are source regions for what fall northeasterly winds that blow toward Southern California?
Santa Ana winds
5137. American Philosophy
What philosophic and literary movement is associated with the biography subtitled 'The Hut at Walden Pond'?
transcendentalism
5138. Space Exploration
What adjective describes an unstable orbit from which an object is gradually spiraling into the body it is traveling around?
decaying
5139. Islands
Name the largest autonomous island of Denmark.
Greenland
5140. An Average Tale
What short story by Kurt Vonnegut is about a future America in which equality is achieved by discouraging exceptional talent or intelligence and creating forced mediocrity?
Harrison Bergeron
5141. The Colonial Period
What two states were formed from the land between the colonies of Georgia and Virginia?
North Carolina, South Carolina
5142.
This is from whose obituary? Died, at Mount Vernon on Saturday evening, the widow of the late illustrious General George Washington. To those amiable and Christian virtues, which adorn the female character, the added dignity of manners, superiority of understanding, a mind intelligent and elevated, the silence of respectful grief is out best eulogy.
Martha Washington
5143. Polynomial Multiplication
Multiply (a squared + ab + b squared) by (a - b).
a cubed - b cubed
5144. Novels
What kind of being is Vladimir Tod in this series of books by Heather Brewer? Eighth Grade Bites Ninth Grade Slays Tenth Grade Bleeds Eleventh Grade Burns Twelfth Grade Kills
vampire
5145. Military Law
In British military law, what offense is 'a combination between two or more persons subject to service law to overthrow or resist lawful authority in Her Majesty's forces?
mutiny
5146. Bird Books
For an ornithologist, these would fall into what general category of nonfiction? -Field Guide to the Birds of North America -The Atlas of Breeding Birds of Michigan -The Birders Handbook -Hawks, Eagles and Falcons of North America
reference books
5147. Allusions
An allusion referring to strength and permanence was derived from what rock at the western end of the Mediterranean?
Gibraltar
5148. Musical Families
Since 1580, nearly 100 members of what German family have made their livings as musicians?
Bach
5149. Blood
What kind of blood cells are so small that they can squeeze through the walls of capillaries to reach the site of an infection?
white blood cells (leukocytes)
5150. World History
The history of what modern nation is associated with a leader named Rurik and a migration of Varangians in the ninth century?
Russia
5151. Dinosaurs
Research has suggested that all dinosaurs may not have been ectothermic as previously believed. This means that some dinosaurs may not have been what?
cold-blooded
5152. Political Labels
What is the general classification for people whose political beliefs lean toward the right?
conservative
5153. Diplomatic Book Reviews
Complete this line by Abraham Lincoln when asked by an author how he liked his new book. Well, for those who like that sort of thing, I think it is just about the sort of thing they ...
would like
5154. Mineral Transportation
Dissolved mineral salts that are relatively abundant in soil move into plant roots where they are less concentrated through what process?
diffusion
5155. Expeditions
Who led this expedition? The expedition left Mexico in 1540 and marched northward. For months, the men tramped over great plains and burning deserts, crossing what is now Arizona, New Mexico, Texas and Oklahoma.
Francisco Coronado
5156. Machines
What is the name for the use of toothed wheels for transmitting rotary motion from one machine element to another?
gearing
5157. Famous Furniture
Name the office in the United States where the Resolute Desk is used.
Oval Office
5158. Potassium
Elemental potassium does not exist in nature because it reacts violently with what common substance?
water
5159. 4
Two numbers are in the ratio of 7 to 4. What are the numbers if the sum of the larger and half the smaller is 36?
28, 16
5160. Weapons of War
What kind of weapon destroyed the Lusitania in 1915?
torpedo
5161. Sculpture
What is casting if carving is a subtractive process?
additive process
5162. Animal Relationships
Any organism whose body provides nourishment and shelter for another is called the ...
host
5163. Verbs
Verbs that express information received through sight, hearing, smell, and taste are classified as what kind of verbs?
sensory verbs
5164. Performing Arts Etymology
What term that in ancient Rome referred to an oval arena for chariot races, equestrian shows, and staged battles later came to mean the kind of entertainments produced by people such as James Bailey and P.T. Barnum?
circus
5165. Homonyms
What homonym can indicate the articulations of the skull or thread used surgically to close wounds?
sutures
5166. Arthropods
Aquatic arthropods with hard shells and jointed bodies and appendages belong to what taxonomic class?
crustaceans
5167. Rivers
Name the largest river between the Brooks Range and the Aleutian Islands.
Yukon
5168. Half-Lives
What fraction of a radioactive isotope with a half-life of 24 hours will still be radioactive at the end of 7 days?
1/128
5169. Acting
An actor versed in another's part, ready to fill in if needed, is an ...
understudy
5170. Legal Idioms
What does the idiom mean in this excerpt? the injured passengers, to wit: Fred Farnsworth, Fran Foster, and Frank Fillmore
that is to say (namely)
5171. Place Names
The name for what forest is shared by the place where John Tyler lived in the U.S. and where Robin Hood's men hung out in England?
Sherwood Forest
5172. Waterfalls
In what state are these waterfalls located? Akaka Falls Wailua Falls Waimoku Falls Papalaua Falls Hanakapiai Falls
Hawaii
5173. Geology
Blocky, pillow, aa, and pahoehoe are varieties of what?
lava
5174. Invasions
The Maximilian Affair relates to French intervention in what country?
Mexico
5175. Flowers
What part of a flower consists of the filament and anther?
stamen
5176. Regulations
What kind of regulations govern the type, use, and size of buildings permitted in different regions of a city?
zoning
5177. Construction Physics
Why does a nail become hot as you hammer it into a board?
friction
5178. European Geography
What landlocked European country is bordered by the Czech Republic and Germany to the north, Slovenia and Italy to the South, Liechtenstein and Switzerland to the west, and Slovakia and Hungary to the east?
Austria
5179. Ranching
What is the name for a horse especially trained to single out a steer from a herd?
cutting horse
5180. Europe
These are regions in what country? Umbria, Piedmont, Lombardy, Latium, Campania
Italy
5181. Diphthongs
What two letters comprise the diphthong in the word for the sound of a cat makes?
ow (from meow)
5182. Money
What rate specifies the price of one country's currency in terms of another's?
exchange rate
5183. Eerie Short Stories
What tale by Ambrose Bierce is based on the very last thoughts of a Southern planter captured and condemned to die by Union soldiers?
An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge
5184. Botanists
George Washington Carver's reputation is based largely on his promotion of peanuts, soybeans, and sweet potatoes as alternatives to what crop?
cotton
5185.
You are swinging a ball on the end of a string around your head. At the instant the string breaks, what kind of force is no longer exerted on the ball?
centripetal
5186. Lake Shores
Identify the three states that have a shoreline on Lake Superior.
Minnesota, Michigan, Wisconsin
5187. Weaponry
A lightweight rifle with a relatively short barrel is called a ...
carbine
5188. Heart Anatomy
Which chamber of the heart receives oxygen-rich blood from the lungs via the pulmonary vein?
left atrium (left auricle)
5189. Inflated Writing
After it is decoded, what is the last word in this sentence? He fiveced the fivemidable threetor three capithreelnine.
capitulate
5190. Poetry
What are the last five words in this excerpt from a poem by Coleridge? Water water everywhere And all the boards did shrink. Water water everywhere ...
Nor any drop to drink
5191. Sentimental Literature
A young American boy becomes heir to an English earldom in what novel by Frances Hodgson Burnett?
Little Lord Fauntleroy
5192. Used Bones
If animal bones are heated in ovens that contain little or no air, most of the hydrogen, nitrogen, and oxygen escapes, leaving what black, brittle, amorphous substance containing mostly carbon?
charcoal
5193. Waterways
By 1825, Buffalo, Syracuse, Utica, and Troy, New York, were connected by what canal?
Erie Canal
5194. Tax Reform
A major item of discussion in many tax reform debates is IRAs. For what do these initials stand?
individual retirement accounts
5195. Sentence Repair
Correct this sentence by changing one word to a compound word. She seems to be some better today.
change some to somewhat
5196. Submarines
Name the captain of Jules Verne's submarine, 'Nautilus.'
Captain Nemo
5197. The Language of Influence
The policy-making relationship between lobbying groups, administrative agencies, and congressional committees is known as what kind of triangle?
iron triangle
5198. Newspaper Artists
Whom did William Randolph Hearst dispatch to Cuba in 1898 to sketch pictures of the conflict he anticipated there?
Frederic Remington
5199. Poetic Settings
This stanza is about a city in what country? Across the plain, beneath the wind, Black my pony, red the moon, Death stands and watches as I come, Watches from the towers of Cordoba.
Spain
5200. Symbols
The shield in front of the eagle on the obverse side of the Great Seal of the United States has how many
stripes?
5201. Poetry
In what form of poetry do the lines do not end in rhymes?
blank verse
5202. Inventions
This is about whose 18th-century invention? It had a top, back, and sides with an air box inside joined to the sides but not reaching the top. The fire produced smoke that moved up and over the air box, heating air that discharged into the room.
Benjamin Franklin's
5203. Art Careers
What type of an artist designs the packaging for products to be sold to consumers?
commercial artist
5204. Presidential Nicknames
What 19th-century U.S. president was referred to by some as 'His Accidency' because he succeeded to the job as the result of an assassination?
Andrew Johnson
5205. Biological Talk
The verb 'spawn' means to deposit ...
eggs
5206. Muscle Names
Any muscle with two heads or points of origin?
biceps
5207. Seagoing Mammals
What kind of whale has the largest head of any animal?
sperm whale
5208. Swamplands
The Okefenokee Swamp straddles the border separating what two states?
Georgia, Florida
5209.
Name the two central adversaries in a melodrama.
hero, villain (protagonist, antagonist)
5210. Regions
What historical region incorporated into China in 1950 has an average elevation of 15,000 feet?
Tibet
5211. Payments
The money paid per unit of time for the temporary use of a piece of equipment or a building that the user does not own is called ...
rent
5212.
What gas that in the stratosphere provides a protective shield against ultraviolet radiation is, in the troposphere, a major component of photochemical smog?
ozone
5213. Acting
Name the actor's trick of looking away from the person who has addressed a remark to him, and then looking back quickly when the meaning of the remark sinks in.
double take
5214. Crowd Control
This is from what novel? .. a nation of warriors and fanatics, marching forward in perfect unity, all thinking the same thoughts and shouting the same slogans, perpetually working, fighting, triumphing, persecuting - three hundred million people all with the same face.
1984
5215. Bygone Civilizations
This is about what civilization? From about 250 CE until around 900 CE, they built temples and monuments, created numerous works of art and writing, continued their astronomical observations, and built a network of cities which lay buried under jungle growth for centuries. Excavation in Guatemala indicates their culture was quite advanced as early as 200 to 150 BCE.
Maya
5216. Algebra
Express algebraically the average of n and 20.
(n+20)/2 or 1/2 (n+20)
5217. Currencies
What is the currency in French Guiana?
euro
5218. Fields of Science
What branch of geography studies the distribution of plants and animals on Earth?
biogeography
5219. Compasses
A gyroscope is a key component in what kind of marine compass that has these advantages over magnetic compasses? -They are unaffected by ferromagnetic materials like the steel in a ship's hull. -They find true north determined by Earth's rotation.
gyrocompass
5220. Verbs
What is the helping verb in this line? Stottlemeyer has the ball and he's
bludgeoning his way to the ten-yard line.
5221. The Earth's Interior
What region within the Earth is believed responsible for the P-wave shadow zone?
core
5222. Logic
What is the truth value of this syllogism? Welfare is given to the poor. Charity is given to the poor. Therefore, welfare is charity.
false
5223. Microscopes
The ocular lens of a microscope is marked 30x. The total magnifying power of the microscope is 600x. What is the power of the objective lens?
20x
5224. Historical Novels
These novels are all set during what period of European history? The Minstrel's Tale A Templar's Apprentice Tales of the Crusades Keeper of the Grail Troubadour
medieval period (Middle Ages)
5225. Nutrient Groups
Aside from water, there are five groups of nutrients including carbohydrates, fats, minerals, and what two others?
proteins, vitamins
5226. Allusions
What character created by George Orwell has become an allusion for governmental invasion of privacy?
Big Brother
5227. American Leaders
From the outbreak of the Civil War until his death in 1895, what journalist and former slave was generally recognized as the premier Black American leader and spokesman for his people?
Frederick Douglass
5228. Fish Organs
Fish have what organ found in no other animal that detects vibrations and pressure changes in the water through sensors beneath the scales?
lateral line
5229. Switching Sides
Some researchers say the reason that, unlike in earlier wars, a relatively high percentage of American soldiers defected after becoming prisoners-of-war during the Korean War was because they were subjected to what kind of coercive persuasion?
brainwashing
5230. Lift
On what kind of watercraft is lift often horizontal?
sailboat
5231. Political Idioms
The name for what bird with a characteristic cooing call also applies to someone who advocates compromise and negotiation in contrast to armed conflict to settle disputes?
dove
5232. Government
What term means either a body of people under one government in a definite region or a subdivision of a nation?
state
5233. Grammar
What is the expletive used in this example? There were only a few tickets left.
there
5234. 4
Broadway is to Tony as Hollywood is to what name?
Oscar
5235. Pilgrimages
What is the destination of the Moslem pilgrimage called the hajj?
Mecca
5236. Prior Careers
As a young man, Dashiell Hammett, author of 'The Maltese Falcon' and 'The Thin Man,' was employed by what national detective agency?
Pinkerton
5237. Matter Measures
Two units of volume are the ml and cc. These abbreviations stand for what?
milliliter, cubic centimeter
5238. Funerals
In 1852, the city of New Orleans held a funeral for three of the greatest U.S. statesmen of the early 19th century. These men were Henry Clay, John C. Calhoun, and what noted orator from New England who served as U.S. representative, senator, and secretary of state, and is remembered largely for supporting the preservation of the Union?
Daniel Webster
5239. Etymology
From what language were these words derived? cartoon cameo sonnet fresco
Italian
5240. Burns
If there is an absence of pain, charred black skin, and exposed muscle tissue, what degree of burn does the victim have?
third degree
5241. Novels
This is from what story? His mind was crowded with memories; memories of the knowledge that had come to them when they closed in on the struggling pig, knowledge that they had outwitted a living thing, imposed their will upon it, taken away its life like a long satisfying drink.
Lord of the Flies
5242. Zoology
Retracting claws are characteristic of what family of mammals?
cats (Felidae, felines)
5243. European Watercraft
Name the long, narrow rowboat used as a taxi in the canals of Venice.
gondola
5244. Wounds
While a laceration is a rough, irregular wound, what is the term for a straight wound caused by a very sharp-edged instrument like a razor or scalpel?
incision (cut, slice, gash)
5245. Figurative Language
What figure of speech is predominant in this verse from Omar Khayyam's 'Rubaiyat'? Wake! For the Sun, who scatter'd into flight The Stars before him from the Field of Night, Drives Night along with them from Hea'n, and strikes The Sultan's Turret with a Shaft of Light.
personification
5246. Musical Homonyms
What term for a melody or a solo can also indicate a colorless, odorless, tasteless gaseous mixture containing 78 percent nitrogen, 21 percent oxygen, and some other gases?
air
5247. Biological Conventions
In binomial nomenclature, which taxonomic division is not capitalized?
species
5248. Alternative Medicine
Although there is no evidence to support the healing effects of magnet therapy, the claim is that magnets have some positive effects on blood because of what iron-rich substance in erythrocytes?
hemoglobin
5249. Drills
Name the hard alloy used on the tips of masonry bits.
carbide
5250. Gulf States Geography
A ship leaves Brownsville, Texas on a northeasterly course. It does not make land in either Texas or Florida so we know it will do so in one of which three states?
Mississippi, Alabama, Louisiana
5251. Novels
Name the Irving Stone novel that was made into a movie starring Charlton Heston as Michelangelo and Rex Harrison as Pope Julius II.
The Agony and the Ecstasy
5252. Taking the Pulse
In what part of an accident victim's body could you take a carotid pulse?
neck
5253. Leaders
With what movement in the U.S. are these people associated? Roy Wilkins, Medgar Evers, Adam Clayton Powell, Jesse Jackson, Martin Luther King
civil rights
5254. Ancient Egyptians
What ancient Hellenistic ruler of Egypt shared power with her father, Ptolemy XII, with Ptolemy XIII and XIV, and later had relationships with Julius Caesar and Mark Antony?
Cleopatra
5255. Folk Dancing
In what folk or ballroom dance do couples move in a circular motion around a room?
round dance
5256. Fraction Fractions
What fraction is halfway between 3 and 14/3?
23/6
5257. Planetary Components
Jupiter probably consists mainly of what two elements?
hydrogen, helium
5258. Grammatical Faux Pas
This newspaper headline illustrates what writing error? Suspect Mortally Killed in Shootout
redundancy
5259.
What is the meaning of the root word in these examples? corporation, corpse, corpulent, corpuscle
body
5260. Music
A septet is a composition for seven voices or instruments. What is a composition for eight?
octet
5261. Twain's Opinion
Who is Mark Twain speaking about? She has been dumb, deaf, and blind, ever since she was a year-and-a-half old. Now, at sixteen years of age, this miraculous creature passes the Harvard University examinations in Latin, German, and French history, and does it not in a commonplace fashion.
Helen Keller
5262. Flight
Dirigibles and blimps were made much safer by using what non-flammable gas to provide lift?
helium
5263. Judicial Power
What power of U.S. federal courts enables them to declare certain acts of Congress null and void?
judicial review
5264. Fictional Characters
According to Sinclair Lewis, Elmer Gantry was in what line of work?
preaching
5265. Forms of Literature
This is the first line of a book of what genre? Nicola Iacocca,--my father, arrived in this country in 1902 at the age of twelve--poor, alone, and scared. He used to say the only thing he was sure of when he got here was that the world was round.
autobiography
5266. Speed Conversions
To the nearest whole number, 55 miles per hour is how many feet per second?
81 (accept 80)
5267. Machines
What kind of machine is designed to increase the pressure of a gas?
compressor
5268. Legendary Americans
He was the engineer on the locomotive 638. Name this old-time, legendary, sometimes reckless engineer.
Casey Jones
5269. State History
These cities are in a state named after whom? Oil City Williamsport Altoona Allentown Scranton Harrisburg
William Penn
5270. The Declaration
What word in the first paragraph of the Declaration of Independence means to break into component parts, to disintegrate, to terminate, to dismiss, or to cause to pass into solution?
dissolve
5271. Speeches
This is the beginning of a satirical paraphrase of what famous speech? I haven't checked these figures, but, 87 years ago, I think it was, a number of individuals organized a government setup here in this country. Now, of course, we are dealing with this big difference of opinion, a civil disturbance you might say.
Gettysburg Address
5272. Greek Myths
In Greek mythology, what is the collective name for the three goddesses of charm and beauty?
Graces (Charites)
5273. Folksongs
A folksong about what American hero includes these words? Said de Big Bend Tunnel on de C & O road gonna cause de death of me
John Henry
5274. Work Problems
Max can mow Marvin's lawn in 3 hours while Morris can do it in 4 hours. If they work together, how long will it take?
1 5/7 (or 1.7) hrs
5275. Dogs
What canine originally bred in western Yugoslavia is known as a coach dog or carriage dog?
Dalmatian
5276. Accidents
What substance is a factor in 90 percent of boating accidents and more than half of traffic accidents?
alcohol
5277. Academies
Midshipmen are students in which American military academy?
Annapolis
5278. Parasites
After walking in the woods, you find some tiny red flecks on your arms. On closer inspection, these flecks attached to your skin prove to be what six-legged parasites?
chiggers
5279. Clouds
The prefix 'cirro-' indicates high clouds and the prefix 'alto-' indicates middle level clouds. What prefix indicates low clouds?
strato-
5280. Dog Doggerel
Name this form of humorous doggerel. Lassie Had a lovely doggy chassis. But under all that fur, She wasn't a her!
clerihew
5281. Failed Construction Projects
In 1881, the French Canal Company under Ferdinand de Lesseps attempted to build a sea-level waterway across what isthmus?
isthmus of Panama
5282. Stability
Through what process are helical grooves cut into firearm barrels to impart a spin to projectiles to improve their aerodynamic stability?
rifling
5283. Physical Laws
Who in 1670 proposed the universal law of gravitation?
Isaac Newton
5284. Space Probes
With its name indicating a desire to know or learn, what NASA space probe was programmed to land on Mars in 2012?
Curiosity
5285. Participles
What are the two acceptable past participles of the verb 'tread'?
trodden, trod
5286. Speech Sounds
What two words complete this elocution drill illustrating assonance. How now ...
brown cow
5287. Crime
A customer who steals merchandise from a retail establishment that is open for business has committed what crime?
shoplifting
5288. Ancient Geography
Thrace is a historical region in the southeastern part of what peninsula?
Balkan Peninsula
5289. Presidents
What U.S. president oversaw the conclusion of World War II, the development of the Marshall Plan, and the establishment of NATO?
Harry Truman
5290. Civil War Finale
In what state did Robert E. Lee surrender the Confederate forces to Ulysses Grant?
Virginia
5291. Seagoing Vessels
What abbreviation precedes the names of these historical ships? Hood Bounty Leopard Challenger Resolution Dreadnought
H.M.S.
5292. Airplane Parts
Name the movable part of a horizontal airfoil that controls the pitch of an aircraft.
elevator
5293. Kinds of Characters
What is the literary name for the role that these characters play? Cruella DeVil in '101 Dalmatians' Ms. Barry in 'Anne of Green Gables' the childcatcher in 'Chitty Chitty Bang Bang' the witch in 'Hansel and Gretel' the warden in 'Holes'
antagonist (villain)
5294. Presidential Anagrams
This is an anagram for which early U.S. president? son had jam
John Adams
5295. Medieval Concepts
In medieval times, the acknowledgment by a vassal of allegiance to his lord was called ...
homage
5296. Historic Battles
The Duke of Wellington led the British forces against Napoleon at what historic battle?
Waterloo
5297. Philosophers
Socrates and Plato were two of the three Greek philosophers whose words formed the basis of much of Western thought. Name the other influential Greek.
Aristotle
5298. Inventors
Resulting in a profound effect on Western society, what British inventor patented a spinning device in 1769 that produced cotton thread hard and firm enough for the warp of woven fabric?
Richard Arkwright
5299. Plant Cytology
The rigid outer layer that surrounds the cell membrane of plant cells is called the cell ...
wall
5300. Sequences
What is the sixth term of a geometric sequence beginning with these numbers? 93 1
1/27
5301. Wartime Autobiographies
Anne Frank's 'Diary of a Young Girl' describes circumstances similar to those found in the autobiographical work by Johanna Reiss entitled 'The ---- Room.'
Upstairs
5302. Music Quotes
What are the last words in this line from Shakespeare's 'Twelfth Night'? If music be the food of love ...
play on
5303. Motion
Speed means a rate of travel over distance and velocity is a measure of speed in a certain direction. What term indicates a change in velocity?
acceleration
5304. Tales
Name the tale in which the hair of a character named Ichabod stood straight on end when he saw a stranger across the marsh holding his own head on the pommel.
The Legend of Sleepy Hollow
5305. Accident Anatomy
Maxie slipped while cutting wood with her chain saw and cut a couple of tough cords of connective tissue in her leg that attach muscle to bone. Name these tissues.
tendons
5306. Fractures
What bone runs along the front of the shoulder to the sternum?
clavicle (collar bone)
5307. Price Reductions
An outboard motor is on sale for 15% off. If the sale price is $425, what was the original price?
$500
5308. Half-life
If the half-life of an isotope is 5 minutes, in how many minutes will there be just 12.5% of the original radioactive material left?
15
5309. Factories
This is about an industrial plant set up by whom in 1910? A huge conveyor moved thousands of parts. Axles were assembled along the lines that met the lines on which the car frames were assembled. Assembled wheels joined the line to be fastened to the ends of axles.
Henry Ford
5310. Vessel Misnomers
Although its actual name was the North River Steamer, in a biography of Robert Fulton, this early steamboat was incorrectly given what other more enduring name?
Clermont
5311. Light
The speed of light in ordinary glass is almost 124,000 miles per second. This is about what fraction of the speed of light in a vacuum?
2/3
5312. 3
In 1817, digging began on the greatest American construction project yet undertaken. What was being built?
Erie Canal
5313. Economic Doctrines
What French phrase implying opposition to economic intervention literally means 'let do,' 'let go,' or 'let pass'?
laissez faire
5314. Cabinet Officers
These are duties of what U.S. cabinet official? -advising on foreign policy -conducting foreign affairs negotiations -ensuring protection to American diplomats -supervising the U.S. Foreign Service -issuing passports to U.S. citizens
Secretary of State
5315. Bones
The ankle is at the distal end of what two long bones?
tibia, fibula
5316. Curves
What fundamental unit of architecture involves a semicircle rising from the top of one vertical element to the top of another?
arch
5317. Injuries
An injury to the brain caused by impact against the skull is called a what?
concussion
5318.
What was the first European religion introduced into the New World?
Catholicism
5319.
'Lead man' is an anagram for what former South African political leader?
Mandela
5320. Writing
What writing error is illustrated by these two headlines? -SQUAD HELPS DOG BITE VICTIM -TEACHER STRIKES IDLE KIDS
ambiguity
5321. Navigation
What navigation instrument used to measure the altitude of celestial bodies was so-named because, originally, it had an arc of 60 degrees?
sextant
5322. Unions
In the early 1900s, members of what union were known as Wobblies?
Industrial Workers of the World
5323. Instruments
Name the metal two-pronged device which produces a sound with a definite pitch.
tuning fork
5324. American Colonies
This was written by a 17th-century resident of what New World colony? After six days, Newport, Smith, and twenty others arrived at a town called Powhatan, consisting of some twelve houses in the midst of cornfields. The prince of this place is Powhatan and his people are called Powhatans.
Jamestown
5325. Hydrology
What term refers to a spot where groundwater leaks out slowly on the ground surface?
seep
5326.
Name either country adjacent to the Arabian Sea that definitely has atomic weapons.
Pakistan, India
5327. Fish Distribution
Name the largest river system in which electric eels are abundant.
Amazon
5328. Teeth
The flat-edged teeth at the front of the mouth are ...
incisors
5329. Conflicts
An armed conflict within a state between factions that wish to control the government is called what kind of war?
civil war
5330. Big Channels
What strait lies between Siberia's Cape Dezhnev and Alaska's Cape Prince of Wales?
Bering Strait
5331. Nonfiction
These lines are from what work by Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn? -We didn't love freedom enough. -Arrest is a shattering thrust, expulsion, somersault from one state into another. -Then came the time for the evening visit to the toilet, for which you had waited, all atremble, all day.
The Gulag Archipelago
5332. Atmospheres
The Jovian atmosphere covers which planet?
Jupiter
5333. Tolkien
In Tolkien's books, what kind of creatures are Ancalagon, Glaurung, Scantha, and Smaug?
dragons
5334. Marine Disasters
The U.S.S. Scorpion and the U.S.S. Thresher were both lost at sea. What kind of vessels were they?
submarines
5335. Soils
The A-horizon of soil contains mainly decomposed vegetation called ...
humus
5336. International Relations
Despite Woodrow Wilson's leading role in founding the League of Nations, the U.S. never joined. At that time, U.S. foreign policy opposed becoming involved in quarrels of other nations. Name this kind of policy.
isolationism
5337.
Tamerlane was a descendant of what earlier Mongol conqueror?
Genghis Khan (or Kublai Khan)
5338. Historical Names
These were all names of what in the late 1880s? Norfolk and Western Northern Pacific Atchison, Topeka, and Santa Fe
railroads
5339. Aviation
The forward edge of the wing of an aircraft is the leading edge. The rear edge is the ...
trailing edge
5340. Curious Travel
To go from west to east, a ship must travel from east to west through what canal?
Panama Canal
5341. Fields of Art
The development of land and foliage into decorative, useful arrangements is called ...
landscaping
5342. Fantasies
What dark, soul-sucking creatures in the Harry Potter books were inspired by J.K. Rowling's personal experiences with depression?
Dementors
5343. Mood
What grammatical mood is in this sentence? If the English language made any sense, a teetotaler would be someone who counts golf pegs.
subjunctive
5344. 4
What power of the president for eliminating the punishments of convicted criminals is often criticized when put into practice?
pardon
5345. Life Classifications
What is the second most inclusive taxonomic category?
phylum
5346. Latin America History
U.S. Marines landed in what Latin American nation in 1926 to shore up the government of Adolfo Diaz?
Nicaragua
5347. Drag Reduction
A car or airplane designed to produce laminar flow and offer the least resistance to viscous drag is said to DE hives
streamlined (aerodynamic)
5348. Atoms
What is the central core of an atom called?
nucleus
5349. Bird Digestion
What do birds ingest that helps their gizzards grind their food?
gravel (little rocks, pebbles)
5350. Canadian Voyageur Songs
What French Canadian song is literally translated as follows? Skylark, pretty skylark, skylark, I will pluck you. I will pluck your head.
Alouette
5351. Islands Namesakes
The islands named after the British politician, Viscount Falkland, are off the coast of what continent?
South America
5352. Participles
What are the two acceptable past participles of the verb 'weave'?
wove, woven
5353. Territoriality Names
Based on the title of their ruling monarch, what kind of geopolitical units are illustrated by Andorra, Liechtenstein, and Monaco?
principalities
5354. Revolutionary Prefixes
The name used by the freedom fighters in Nicaragua was the same as a common prefix in English. The meaning of that prefix is ...
against (contra)
5355.
When would a 'post mortem' examination be conducted on Phileas Vanderslumgullion?
after his death
5356. Assistance
What is the phrase for financial assistance given by richer, usually industrialized countries to developing countries?
foreign aid
5357. Italian Cities
Frescoes by Giotto are in its Arena Chapel. Vesalius and Galileo taught at its university in which Copernicus and William Harvey were both students. Name this significant Italian city.
Padua
5358. Psychology
When watching 'Gone with the Wind,' Diana felt sad when Scarlett returns to her devastated plantation, hopeful when Scarlett marries Rhett, and angry when Rhett finally leaves. Such sharing of the feelings of characters by the audience is called what?
empathy
5359. Friction
Of the two fundamental kinds of friction, which is greater?
static friction
5360. Mideast Wars
The 1973 Yom Kippur War was launched by a coalition of Arab states led by Syria and Egypt against what country?
Israel
5361. Imaginary Botany
The Hurbah tree, the Pendick tree, sparkweed, kingsfoil, hazia, and fourfoil are imaginary plants in what series of novels by Ursula Le Guin?
Earthsea
5362. Protests
In 1913, on the day before President Wilson's inauguration, 5000 suffragettes marched down Pennsylvania Avenue, demanding the right to do what?
vote
5363. Integers
What is the largest of 3 consecutive even integers the sum of which is 60?
22
5364. Territorial Expansion
The U.S. acquired the Pribilof Islands at the same time that it purchased what other major piece of real estate?
Alaska
5365. Currency
What unit of British currency completes this verse called 'On Communists'? What is a Communist? One who hath yearnings For equal division of unequal earnings; Idler or bungler, or both, he is willing To fork out his penny and pocket your ...
shilling
5366.
What symbol is indicated below? In the fall of 1989, the most visible symbol of the Cold War was chipped away piece by piece by a joyful population determined to end the politically enforced partition of their country.
Berlin Wall
5367. German Geology
Augen are relatively large mineral grains in schist and gneiss. Recalling the German origin of the term, you can surmise that the mineral grains are shaped like ...
eyes
5368. Monopolies
What product invented and patented by Joseph Glidden began to see widespread use in the 1870s to protect crops, water supplies, and livestock?
barbed wire
5369. Poems
In what poem by A.E. Housman does the poet reflect upon a young athlete brought home to be buried, musing that he was lucky to be at the peak of his abilities since he will now never experience the fading of that glory?
To an Athlete Dying Young
5370. Laws of Physics
Who developed the law of physics badly paraphrased below? Something just lying there will stay there unless something comes along and moves it.
Isaac Newton
5371. Reptiles
What crocodilians of India have extremely narrow, slender snouts with long, recurved, interlocking teeth?
gavials (gharials)
5372. Diaries
Whose diary, found near his frozen body some ten months after he had reached the South Pole, is a stirring account of the suffering and bravery of his men?
Robert Scott's
5373. Island Nations
Name the archipelago straddling the equator in Southeast Asia consisting of some 17,000 islands.
Indonesia
5374. Art Forms
What is one of the oldest forms of artistic expression involving painting executed to decorate walls?
murals
5375. Civil Service
Abraham Lincoln pointed out the dangers inherent in what system whereby government jobs were regularly filled with supporters of the party in power rather than on the basis of merit?
spoils system (patronage)
5376. Forts
These are in what state? Fort Columbia, Fort Colville, Fort Nisqually, Fort Okanogan, Fort Simcoe, Fort Steilacoom, Fort Walla Walla, Fort Vancouver
Washington
5377. Criminal Jargon
What term used formally in law enforcement is synonymous with these slang words? canary, rat, snitch, fink, squealer, stool pigeon
informant (informer)
5378. Psychology
Milt is afraid of plants. Shirley can't stand snakes. Judy freaks out when she even thinks about airplanes. What is the name for such irrational fears?
phobias
5379. Rectangles
The perimeter of a rectangle equals the sum of twice the width and twice the length. The perimeter is 33.
The length is 9.5. What is the width?
5380. Historic Documents
Who wrote this around 1920? When a person claims to be non-violent, he is expected not to be angry with one who has injured him. He will not wish him harm. He will wish him well.
Mohandas (Mahatma) Gandhi
5381. Australian Songs
A swagman steals and butchers a jumbuck in the song, 'Waltzing Matilda.' What is a jumbuck?
sheep
5382. Dictators
This physician assumed power in Haiti in 1957. Later he was elected as president for life in that nation, but his tenure was cut short by severe rioting and he had to flee. Who was this doctor and dictator?
Francois Duvalier (Papa Doc)
5383. Construction Projects
Construction of what colossal dam on the Colorado River began in 1930?
Boulder (Hoover) Dam
5384. Oceanic Oozes
While siliceous ooze consists mainly of the debris of plankton with silica shells, such as diatoms and radiolaria, what kind of ooze is composed primarily of the shells of foraminifers, coccolithophores, and pteropods?
calcareous ooze
5385. Scientific Instruments
Developed by Jean Bernard Foucault to prove that the Earth turns, what device consists of a very long wire suspended from a high ceiling and attached to a heavy bob so that it is free to swing to and fro in any direction?
pendulum (Foucault pendulum)
5386. Series
There were 18 vampire bats in the first room of a cave. The next room had 45 such creatures and 99 were in the next. If this continues, how many are in the next room?
207
5387. Rumors
Various rumors and stories concerning whose treasure formed the basis of Robert Louis Stevenson's 'Treasure Island' and Edgar Allan Poe's 'The Gold Bug'?
Captain (William) Kidd's
5388. Fields
Electric fields may be attractive or repulsive, while gravitational fields are always what?
attractive
5389. Canadian History
Ontario was first explored by Europeans of what nation?
France
5390. U
What is the name for an arrangement made by the United Nations for a period during which opposing forces in a civil war agree to not shooting?
cease-fire
5391. Constellations
All modern constellation names come from what language?
Latin
5392. Devices
What mechanical device invented early in the 19th century consists of a wheel with a heavy rim mounted on an axis pivoted on both ends within a light circular frame?
gyroscope
5393. Legends
What pure knight, the son of Lancelot and Elaine, achieved the vision of the Holy Grail?
Galahad
5394. Powerful Convictions
Who persuaded Charles VII that she had a divine mission to expel the occupying English from northern France during the Hundred Years' War?
Joan of Arc
5395. Archaeology
In what present-day country have archaeologists excavated the sites of the Indus civilization at Harappa and Mohenjo-Daro?
Pakistan
5396. Mythical Climbs
Name the woman suggested by this passage. The pair crossed the Styx safely and began the long climb up the passage to the surface of the earth. Orpheus never looked back, though he was greatly tempted.
Eurydice
5397. Footnotes
In footnotes, what is the meaning of 'ff.'?
the following pages
5398. Christmas Tunes
What is the next line in this Christmas carol? Faithful friends who are dear to us ...
Gather near to us once more
5399. Organic Chemistry
These are abbreviations for varieties of what category of organic compounds? PETE, HDPE, LDPE, PP, PS, PVC
plastics
5400. Presidential Speeches
What president said this in a speech? So I ask you tonight to join me and march along the road to the future, the road that leads to the Great Society.
Lyndon Johnson
5401. Dunes
The tallest sand dunes in the U.S. are in the Great Sand Dunes National Park in what state?
Colorado
5402. Modifiers
What two degrees of comparison are illustrated in this line? All animals are equal but some animals are more equal than others.
positive, comparative
5403. Bad Feelings
What is the collective name for seasickness, car sickness, simulation sickness, and airsickness?
motion sickness (kinetosis, travel sickness)
5404. Literary Forms
Lengthy Scandinavian and Icelandic prose narratives recounting famous heroes, notable families, or the exploits of kings and warriors are called ...
sagas
5405. Chemical Compounds
There are two types of chemical compounds because there are two ways to achieve the noble gas configuration. One is by the transfer of electrons. The other is by the ...
sharing of electrons
5406. Frontier Settlements
What adjective describes Old West towns that suddenly sprang up or dramatically increased in size following a nearby discovery of gold, oil, or silver?
boom
5407. Fossils
The world's most colorful and largest collection of petrified wood is in a national park in what state?
Arizona
5408. Law Changes
Forty-three years after the Scopes 'monkey trial,' what state finally abolished its law prohibiting the teaching of evolution?
Tennessee
5409. Typefaces
A thick, heavy typeface used for emphasis is called ...
boldface (bold)
5410. British Poetry
What Percy Bysshe Shelley poem ends with this? Nothing beside remains. Round the decay Of that colossal wreck, boundless and bare The lone and level sands stretch far away.
Ozymandias
5411. Velocities
An airplane is traveling due westward with a velocity of 400 miles per hour. But, it is flying directly into a headwind with a velocity of 40 miles per hour. What is the resultant velocity of the airplane?
360 mph westward
5412. Voice
What voice is used in this line? Raging flood waters destroyed the French town.
active
5413. Planets
Clouds around what planet are alternating bands of white to reddish brown?
Jupiter
5414. First Aid
In first aid, the back-pressure arm-lift technique is one method of providing artificial what?
respiration
5415. Congressmen
Although 'congressman' may refer to members of either legislative body, it usually indicates members of the ...
House of Representatives
5416. Anthropology
How are these people collectively known? -the Bama in northeast Queensland -the Koori in New South Wales -the Palawah in Tasmania -the Noongar in Western Australia -the Anagu in South Australia
Aborigines
5417. Arthurian Legends
Name the legendary site of King Arthur's palace.
Camelot
5418. Island Kings
What king gained control of Hawaii and most of its surrounding islands between 1782 and 1795?
Kamehameha | (or Kamehameha)
5419. Weathering
What substance is always involved in the weathering process called frost wedging?
water (or ice)
5420. Amendment OKs
Name the act of approval by a state legislature of a proposed Constitutional amendment.
ratification
5421. Genotypes
A human with an XXY genotype is what sex?
male
5422. Geologic Processes
While erosion involves movement caused by phenomena such as water, wind, ice, or gravity, the breaking down of rocks independent of movement is called what?
weathering
5423. Eye Parts
Name the pigmented ring of muscular tissue that lies between the cornea and the lens.
iris
5424. Aircraft
During World War II, what was the popular name for the Boeing B-17?
Flying Fortress
5425. Art Techniques
Hatching is the engraving, etching, or drawing of closely spaced, fine lines to create the effect of what?
shadow
5426. Conspiracies
This evidence is cited in support of theories about whose murder? -Gunshots were heard coming from the grassy knoll. -All the shots could not have been fired by one person so quickly -Several witnesses were killed shortly after the murder.
John Kennedy
5427. Subatomic Physics
Identify a particle of mass whose name begins with 'm' that is intermediate between the mass of the electron and the proton.
meson
5428. Slogans
In the 1890s, the slogan, 'Remember the Maine,' encouraged American entry into what war?
Spanish-American War
5429. Regional Dress
What traditional clothing of Pakistani and Indian women consists of a length of lightweight cloth with one end wrapped about the waist to form a skirt and the other draped over the shoulder or the head?
sari
5430. The Roman Empire
Under the leadership of Augustus Caesar, Rome's territory stretched from Spain in the west to Syria in the east and from the Rhine and Danube rivers in the north to what desert in the south?
Sahara
5431. Aviation
The greater the difference between the thrust and the drag, the faster an airplane does what?
accelerates (increases speed)
5432. Sentences
What is always the subject of an imperative sentence?
you
5433. Dialects
'Mo chagren,' 'dit mon la verite!,' 'slow the TV,' and 'he's got the gumbo' are examples of what dialect primarily spoken in southern Louisiana?
Cajun (Cajun English)
5434. Climates
The three major biomes found in the tropical climate zone include the tropical desert, the tropical savanna, and the ...
tropical rain forest
5435. European Weddings
In 2010, the 'commoner' Daniel Westling married Victoria, the crown princess of what Scandinavian nation?
Sweden
5436. The Atmosphere
Cold air is denser than warm air and therefore, with respect to light, has a greater index of what?
refraction
5437. 4
Two trucks are two hundred miles apart on a straight Nevada highway. One starts at 9:00 p.m. and drives west at 60 mph. The other starts at 9:00 p.m. and drives east at 40 mph. What time do they meet?
11 p.m.
5438. Forest Dwellers
What forest was a temporary home for the legendary Maid Marian?
Sherwood Forest
5439. Medieval Cities
What Italian city-state was originally built on stilts and piles driven into the mud of a marsh near the mouth of the Po River?
Venice
5440. Maps
A Flemish mapmaker, Gerardus Mercator, was the first to use what name for a book of maps that is reminiscent of a Greek god who held the world on his shoulders?
atlas
5441. Marine Life
In mollusks and brachiopods, name the tissue that secretes the substance that forms the shell.
mantle
5442. Plant Classifications
Broad-leaved plants are to dicots as narrow-leaved plants are to what classification?
monocots
5443. Arbitrary Enumeration
According to an agreement reached in the Constitutional Convention of 1787, for purposes of representation and taxation, a slave was to be counted as what fraction of a free person?
3/5
5444. Mathematical Coordinates
Complete this statement about coordinates. For every point there corresponds uniquely a triple of real numbers, and, conversely, to every triple of real numbers there corresponds a unique ...
point (in space)
5445. Disease Agents
What is the popular name for microorganisms or microbes?
germs
5446. Presidents
Who was reelected in 1792 as U.S. president?
George Washington
5447. Brief Tales
This is from what short story? Although the villagers had forgotten the ritual and lost the original black box, they still remembered to use stones. There were stones on the ground with the blowing scraps of paper that had come out of the box. Delacroix selected a stone so large she had to pick it up with both hands.
The Lottery
5448. The Water Supply
What continent has more fresh water than any other?
North America
5449. Fictional Characters
In Ursula Le Guin's 'Earthsea' novels, what is Ged's commonly used name that is reminiscent of a small bird of prey?
Sparrowhawk
5450. Chemical Reactions
In what kind of chemical reaction do the ions in two compounds switch places?
double-replacement reaction
5451. Energy Transformations
Photosynthesis is a reduction reaction in which chlorophyll-containing plants convert light energy to what other kind of energy?
chemical (potential) energy
5452. Instruments
These are varieties of what kind of percussion instruments? banana double steel snare kettle
drums
5453. Ocean Currents
Name the below-surface movement of water returning to the sea after it comes ashore as breaking waves.
undertow (rip current)
5454. Getting Directions
For navigation, the direction to some point from the ship is called a what?
bearing
5455. Cities
Name the transcontinental city straddling the Bosporus.
Istanbul
5456. Motion
A roadrunner started from rest and reached a speed of 50 mph in 4 seconds. A coyote started at 20 mph and reached a speed of 40 mph in 8 seconds. The rate at which these critters increased their speeds is called ...
acceleration
5457. Tragedies
This is about whom? A little after midnight in June of 1968, it became clear that he had won California and South Dakota. As he walked through a kitchen passageway at the Ambassador Hotel in Los Angeles, he was fatally wounded.
Robert Kennedy
5458. Earth's Spheres
The pedosphere exists at the interface of the lithosphere and what other sphere?
atmosphere
5459. Plants
Epiphytes, otherwise known as aerophytes, grow on other plants upon which they depend for mechanical support. Geophytes are perennials propagated by buds on underground bulbs, tubers, or corms. Plants adapted to grow in water are called ...
hydrophytes
5460. Constellations
By what other name do we know the constellation, the Northern Cross?
Cygnus
5461. Linear Equations
Solve this equation for x. 3x -.04 = .557
199
5462. Faulty Towers
In the 12th century, construction began on what famous Italian campanile that sits on an inadequate foundation?
Leaning Tower of Pisa
5463. Circles
For two circles with radii of 11 and 6, what is their line
of centers if the circles are tangent externally?
5464. Quadrilateral Areas
The area of what quadrilateral equals half of the altitude times the sum of the bases?
trapezoid
5465. Plane Figures
Similar triangles have identical shapes but different ...
sizes (dimensions)
5466. Wartime Attacks
On the same day they attacked Pearl Harbor, the Japanese also attacked Wake Island. On Wake, what was the date?
December 8, 1941
5467. Idiom
An adjective and noun referring to the largest of the phalanges make up what idiom referring to a person skillful in the garden?
green thumb
5468. 3
To what kind of weapon was this 1945 headline from the 'London Daily Express' referring? 20,000 Tons in a Golf Ball
atomic bomb
5469. Taxonomic Zoology
Horseshoe crabs belong to which biological phylum?
Arthropoda (arthropod)
5470. Fungi
What substance forms the exoskeletons of insects?
chitin
5471. South American Capitals
If you sailed almost due west from Montevideo across the mouth of the Rio de la Plata, you could end up in what other capital city?
Buenos Aires
5472. 5
Sedimentary rocks may be affected by two broad processes, metamorphism and what other?
weathering
5473. Lenses
An early mention of lenses occurs in a play written in 424 B.C. by Aristophanes where he refers to 'burning-glasses' used to focus the Sun's rays and produce fire. What is the shape of such a lens?
convex
5474. Tolkien
What character in a series of novels by J.R.R. Tolkien says these things? -My birthday present! That's what we wants now, yes; we wants it. -It won't see us, will it, my precious. -What has it got in its pocketses?
Gollum
5475. Travelers
What is the term for people who move according to the seasons from place to place in search of food, water, and grazing land?
nomads
5476. Rights
The roots of the Bill of Rights in the U.S. Constitution can be traced back to what document signed by King John in the year 1215?
Magna Carta
5477.
How many atoms of hydrogen are in two molecules of
water?
5478. Wordiness
What words could be eliminated from this sentence with no change in meaning? I understand the fact that you are captain of the sunken cruise ship.
the fact
5479. Root Sums
What is the sum of the square root of 36 and the
square root of 81?
5480. Trees
Name the uppermost portion of a tree including the branches and leaves.
crown
5481. Propulsion Alternatives
In 1909, what American physicist wrote about using liquid hydrogen as a fuel with liquid oxygen as the oxidizer as an alternative to conventional powder-fueled rockets?
Robert Goddard
5482. Rhyme Schemes
What is the rhyme scheme below? It was many and many a year ago In a kingdom by the sea That a maiden there lived whom you may know By the name of Annabel Lee
abab
5483. Dice Probability
If you have a die in the shape of a regular icosahedron, what are the chances of it landing on a particular side?
1 in 20
5484. Microwaves
For what does the 'r' stand in the acronym 'maser'?
radiation
5485. Evolution
What characteristic of reptiles is believed to have evolved into the feathers of birds?
scales
5486. Animal Groups
This is about what group of mammals? What they all have in common is a set of powerful jaws for chopping up their food, deadly curved claws for tearing, and long sharp teeth for seizing and killing their victims.
carnivores (predators)
5487. Sedimentary Color
Hues of brown and red are often present in sedimentary rocks containing the oxides of what metal?
iron
5488. Landmarks
What enduring landmark was built for the Paris Exposition of 1889 in the Champ-de-Mars?
Eiffel Tower
5489. Practical Chemistry
What is the general name for complex chemical compounds that attach themselves to fabrics or surfaces to give them color?
dyes
5490. Italy
Identify the unique boats common on the canals of Venice.
gondolas
5491. Statues
Which of the wonders of the ancient world was sculpted around 462 B.C. and depicts the king of the Greek gods sitting on a throne?
Statue of Zeus
5492. Birds
What kind of bird is the macaw?
parrot
5493. Alien Math
A cell from the planet Trio got into the space station. Every hour, that cell split into three cells which immediately grew to the size of the first cell. This process started at midnight and the station was completely filled by noon. At what time was the container one-third filled?
11 a.m.
5494. European Sites
These World Heritage Sites are in what country? The Dolomites Residences of the Royal House of Savoy Archaeological Area of Herculaneum Piazza del Duomo City of Verona
Italy
5495. Big Leagues
What international organization describes itself as a 'global association of governments facilitating cooperation in international law, international security, economic development, and social equity'?
United Nations
5496. Petrology
What is the name for rock formed from cemented gravel and cobbles?
conglomerate
5497. Materials Handling
Name the device consisting of two or more pulleys between a continuous loop of material that moves items along a factory floor or transports bulk materials such as ores, grain, and coal.
conveyor belt
5498. History of Science
He placed two barrels of wine on a ship. One had been heated. After ten months, the heated wine was still perfect while the other was spoiled. What Frenchman performed this experiment?
Louis Pasteur
5499. 3
Which of the Founding Fathers most vehemently opposed Alexander Hamilton's proposals to create a national bank?
Thomas Jefferson
5500. Nuclear Disasters
There have been two Level 7 nuclear accidents. Name the facilities where these occurred.
Chernobyl, Fukushima
5501. Food Inventions
On what continent was pemmican invented?
North America
5502. Composers
This is about what composer? Under the pressure of his nearing isolation from the world of sound he voiced his despair in the 'Heiligenstadt Testament' and became increasingly eccentric, suspicious, and insulting.
Ludwig van Beethoven
5503. U
The seat of Washoe County lies about twenty miles north of Lake Tahoe and is known for its legalized gambling and facilities for quick divorces. Name this city.
Reno
5504. Stage Directions
From the point of view of the actors, 'stage left' indicates which side of the stage?
left
5505. Shakespearean Quotes
What is the last word in this quote from 'Romeo and Juliet'? Good night! Good night! Parting is such sweet sorrow that I shall say good night till it be ...
morrow
5506. Biographies
These words refer to whom? About 1612, after writing thirty-seven plays and having become wealthy, he retired to Stratford where he died on April 23, 1616.
William Shakespeare
5507. Radicals
The square root of 3L equals 5. Express L as a fraction.
25/3
5508. Joints
The head of the femur that fits into the socket of the pelvis is called the what?
ball
5509. Drought
Name the long, sinuous cracks that open at the Earth's surface as the result of the depletion of groundwater.
fissures
5510. Literary Quotes
In 1766, Jean Jacques Rousseau attributed the remark, 'let them eat cake' to 'a great princess.' Two decades later, it was widely ascribed to what French queen?
Marie Antoinette
5511. Scientific Nonfiction
In his 'Method of Reaching Extreme Altitudes,' he predicted development of rockets that could break free of Earth's gravitational pull and reach the Moon. Name this physicist who developed the first two-stage rocket.
Robert Goddard
5512. Deadly Disagreements
Alexander Hamilton called whom 'a dangerous man of whom he could detail a still more despicable opinion'?
Aaron Burr
5513. Gymnastic Mechanics
The closer the arms get to a horizontal position, the more force is needed to keep the body suspended. This is why it is so difficult for gymnasts to perform what gymnastic skill on the rings?
iron cross (crucifix, inverted or Maltese cross)
5514. Headline History
This headline appeared in what month of 1941? Hawaii, Manila Bombed. 350 Dead.
December
5515. Medical Procedures
What is the source of the tissue used to replace a patient's damaged tissue in an autografting procedure?
the patient
5516. Military History
The heavily armed European soldiers of the 17th and 18th centuries who transported themselves on horseback but fought on foot were called ...
dragoons
5517. Macromolecules
Amino acids are supremely important in biology because they constitute the building blocks of what complex macromolecules?
proteins
5518. Crimes
Burglary is also known as breaking and what?
entering
5519. Homophones
Spell the adjective meaning 'impending' that is a homophone for another adjective meaning 'noteworthy' or 'distinguished.'
imminent
5520. Revolutionary Milestones
In an especially inflammatory move, General Thomas Gage dispatched a column of British regulars in April, 1775 to seize the gunpowder believed stored in what Massachusetts town?
Concord
5521. Coastal Landforms
Areas of relatively flat, low land adjacent to a coast such as those found along the northern part of the Gulf of Mexico are called coastal ...
plains
5522. Scary Stories
This is from what novel? We are in Transylvania, and Transylvania is not England. Our ways are not your ways, and there shall be to you many strange things.
Dracula
5523. Integers
Find the largest of three consecutive integers whose sum is 60.
21
5524. Etymology
These words came into English from what language? cache, malaise, somber, impasse, rapport
French
5525. Scientists
Wernher von Braun worked for the governments of what two countries?
(Nazi) Germany, United States
5526. Poetic Phrases
What Scottish poet popularized the phrase, 'auld lang syne'?
Robert Burns
5527. Experts
A jurist is thoroughly knowledgeable about the ...
law
5528. Protests
Several hundred people upset about a proposal walked into a public office, seated themselves anywhere in the room, and refused to leave. Name this sort of nonviolent, organized protest.
sit-in
5529. Overseas Slang
These are slang words and phrases from what country? back of Bourke, tucker-bag, chewie, swag, barbie, give it a burl, pommy shower, Matilda
Australia
5530. City Founders
After murdering his brother, who named the new city of Rome after himself?
Romulus
5531. Literary Associations
This passage by Mitch Leigh is based on a work by what European author? One man scorned and covered with scars still strove with his last ounce of courage to reach the unreachable stars; and the world will be better for this.
Miguel Cervantes
5532. Waterways
The shortest route between the North Atlantic and the Indian Ocean is through what artificial waterway?
Suez Canal
5533. Civil War Battles
The Battle of Atlanta involved about fifty thousand Confederate troops under General John Hood and about one hundred thousand Union troops led by whom?
William Sherman
5534. The Solar System
The most volcanically active world in the solar system
is what moon of Jupiter?
5535. American Leaders
Matthew Galbraith Perry and his brother, Oliver, were in which branch of the military?
navy
5536. Capital Lands
In 1788, what state ceded ten square miles to Congress for the future District of Columbia?
Maryland
5537. Scientific Laws
This is a statement of a scientific law attributed to whom? The total pressure of a mixture of ideal gases is equal to the sum of the partial pressures of its components.
John Dalton
5538. Pulleys
If you use a two-pulley system, the amount of effort to lift the heavy object is half as much but how far do you then have to pull the rope?
twice as far
5539. Conditionals
Complete this haunting conditional statement from the movie, 'Field of Dreams.' If you build it, he ...
will come
5540. Poems
This is the first stanza of what Walt Whitman poem? Afoot and light-hearted, I take to the open road, Healthy, free, the world before me, The long brown path before me, leading wherever I choose.
Song of the Open Road
5541. Greek Myths
How are these beings collectively known? Urania, Thalia, Terpsichore, Erato, Polyhymnia, Melpomene, Euterpe, Clio, Calliope
Muses
5542. Clouds
What kind of clouds form around the eye of a hurricane?
cumulus (cumuliform)
5543. Prognostications
Napoleon said, 'You would make a ship sail against the winds and currents by lighting a bonfire under her deck. I have no time for such nonsense.' He was commenting on what invention by Robert Fulton?
steamboat (steamship)
5544. Acids
What type of acid is in the stomach?
hydrochloric acid
5545. Blood Donation
Donated blood is usually separated into its components by what machine that spins it around at high speed?
centrifuge
5546. U
In what state are these cities? Fargo Grand Forks Bismarck
North Dakota
5547. Time
A period of 1000 years is called a ...
millennium
5548. Captains
Daniel Shays was a captain during what war?
American Revolution
5549. Adventure Tales
This line is from what American novel by an author with a famous pen name? We said there warn't no home like a raft, after all. Other places do seem so cramped up and smothery, but a raft don't. You feel mighty free and easy and comfortable on a raft.
The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn
5550. Herbicides
Millions of gallons of what herbicide and defoliant consisting of equal parts of 2,4,5-T and 2,4-D were used during the Vietnam War?
Agent Orange
5551. Sentence Mood
What grammatical mood is illustrated in this Irish bull by Woody Allen? The food here is terrible and the portions are too small.
indicative
5552. Phrases
What are the adjective phrases in this example? The light at the end of the tunnel could be an oncoming train.
at the end, of the tunnel
5553. World Economics
In the late 1990s, its real estate values declined by as much as 80 percent and its equities plummeted by 60 percent. This loss of over $8 trillion in value is the largest collapse of wealth in the history of the world. Name the country.
Japan
5554. Suspensions
What is the common name for a fine suspension of tiny particles of carbonaceous matter in a gas resulting from the burning of organic material?
smoke
5555. Short Stories
Who wrote the following? Well, it was up to him to build the fire over again, and this second time there must be no failure. Even if he succeeded, he would most likely lose some toes. His feet must be badly frozen by now, and there would be some time before the second fire was ready.
Jack London
5556. Motion
Suppose an object is moving steadily at three feet per second. Three feet per second with respect to what? To you? To a field? To the Moon? Motion has meaning only when it is measured with respect to something called a frame of ...
reference
5557. Organizations
Some called what international organization of the 1920s 'The Unholy Thing with a Holy Name'?
League of Nations
5558. Physiological Reactions
What usually happens to one's pupils during a flight-or-fight reaction?
They dilate.
5559. Temperature Equivalents
What do these temperatures have in common? -459.67 degrees F -273.15 degrees C -0 degrees K
absolute zero
5560. Open Ocean Biomes
The photic, euphotic and aphotic zones of the ocean are classified depending upon the penetration of what?
light
5561. Poisons
Poisons that affect the nervous system are called what kind of toxins?
neurotoxins
5562. Measurement
What phenomenon is measured by counting periodic phenomena such as resonance in atoms, electromagnetic cycles in oscillators, or mechanical vibrations?
time
5563. 5
How would a medieval scholar classify these tendencies? gluttony wrath pride avarice
vices
5564. Business Math
When a store offers a discount of 30% off the list price of nosegays, it loses 16% of its cost. What percentage of profit would it make by selling them at 10% off the list price?
8%
5565. U
Rock Springs, Sheridan, and Cody are cities in what state?
Wyoming
5566. Exiles
What former American vice president went into voluntary European exile to avoid going on trial for the murder of Alexander Hamilton?
Aaron Burr
5567. The Ancient Mideast
The ancient region stretching from the Nile to the Euphrates, the site of many of the earliest settlements, is called the Fertile what?
Crescent
5568. Industrial Developments
What invention of 1831 by Cyrus McCormick greatly accelerated the harvesting of grain?
(mechanical) reaper
5569. Mammals
The Andalusian, known for centuries as the Spanish horse, was initially bred on what peninsula?
Iberian Peninsula
5570. Area
How many square feet are in eight square yards?
72
5571. Tusks
While tusks are generally curved, what marine mammal has a single straight tusk with a helical shape?
narwhal
5572. Fan Problems
Fred fabricated 30 fans, some with 3 blades and some with 4, and used a total of 103 blades. How many
3-bladed fans did he fabricate?
5573. Architectural Wonders
The Cathedral of Santa Maria del Fiore, the Pitti Palace, and the Uffizi are among the major architectural marvels of what city that was the center of the Italian Renaissance?
Florence
5574. Protests
Active refusal to obey certain laws or demands of a government without resorting to physical violence is called civil ...
disobedience
5575. Biographies
The name of what river completes this title of a biography? Henry Stanley and the Quest for the Source of the ...
Nile
5576. Automobiles
California has passed legislation requiring auto manufacturers to build and sell ZEVs. This abbreviation stands for ...
zero emission vehicles
5577. Fractured History
Correct the one wrong word in this sentence. Queen Elizabeth's navy went out and defeated the Spanish Armadillo.
Armada
5578. Russian Art
This statement refers to what kind of dolls? l used to like Russian dolls until I realized they were full of themselves.
nested (nesting, matryoshka, babushka) dolls
5579. The 1001 Nights
In the tale of Aladdin, what did the unscrupulous magician, with the help of the magic lamp, have transported to Africa that Aladdin was eventually able to bring back to China?
a palace
5580. Space Programs
What U.S. space flight project named after a zodiacal constellation involved a two-man spacecraft built for orbital rendezvous?
Gemini
5581. Navigation
A ship leaves the Isle of Crete and travels along a compass heading of 80 degrees. Ultimately this ship will make land in what North African country?
Egypt
5582. Abbreviations
In the military, for what does AWOL stand?
absent without leave
5583. Mammals
The hooves of ungulate mammals are made of what structural protein?
keratin
5584. Exhortations
In 1865, what Confederate leader said this at Appomattox, Virginia? Go to your homes and resume your occupations. Obey the laws and become as good citizens as you were soldiers.
Robert E. Lee
5585. Electricity
Electricity is always produced by what kind of machines?
generators (dynamos, turbines)
5586. Zoological Analogies
Bison are quadrupeds while humans are what?
bipeds
5587. Amendments
Prior to the adoption of the 17th Amendment, U.S. senators were chosen by what bodies?
state legislatures
5588. Soccer Statistics
A soccer team scores 100 goals in a season and ends up with a 2.00 goal average. How many goals were scored against this team during the season?
50
5589. Cones
If you know the height and radius of a cone, you can determine the slant height by using what theorem?
Pythagorean theorem
5590. Suffixes
These suffixes indicate what part of speech? -ful, -less, -able, -ive, -ish, -ic
adjective
5591. Meteorology
Meteorologists use what term in reference to the horizontal distance over which you can see a prominent object under various weather conditions?
visibility
5592. Inadequate Plans
This is about what 18th-century U.S. document? It gave too much power to the states and too little to the federal government.
Articles of Confederation
5593. The Atom
'Atomic number' refers to the quantity of what type of subatomic particle in an element?
protons
5594. U
Brownsville, Texas is adjacent to what river?
Rio Grande
5595. Stories
These are among the stories in what book? The Story of King Shahryar The Fisherman and the Jinni The Porter and the Three Ladies of Baghdad The First Kalandar's Tale The Sweep and the Noble Lady Abu Kir the Dyer and Abu Sir the Barber
The Arabian Nights (1000 Nights and a Night)
5596. Literature
What literary element may involve a struggle between characters, a character's struggle against external circumstances, or a character's inner battle?
conflict
5597. Range Wars
Some of the most lasting of the range wars of the Old West pitted cattle ranchers against those who raised what other domestic mammal?
sheep
5598. Inventions
What French invention is indicated in these quotations? -the one and only cure for gray hair -a cure for dandruff -a machine that makes a Frenchman shrug his shoulders with good reason
guillotine
5599. Symptom Malapropisms
What word should have been used in this mention of a skin disorder? My son has whelps all over.
welts
5600. Jar Physics
Why does running hot water over a metal lid of a glass jar make it easier to open the container?
metal expands more than the glass
5601.
Divide x/y by 3a/2.
2x/3ay
5602. Plastering Geometry
A room is 14' long by 12' wide and 8.5' high. It has 2 windows each 3' by 6' and | door 3' by 7'. At $1.80 per square yard, what is the cost of plastering the walls and ceiling excluding the openings?
$110.60
5603. Mottos
During what century did the French first adopt the motto, 'Liberty, Equality, Fraternity'?
18th century
5604. Musicians
What musical director for the U.S. Army during the Spanish-American War and World War I wrote the autobiography entitled 'Marching On'?
John Philip Sousa
5605. Radians
Express 135 degrees in terms of radians.
(3pi)/4
5606. Pronouns
There are three pronouns in this sentence. All are what type of pronouns? You and I will see him shortly.
personal
5607. Plant Pests
One day, Farmer Ron was wandering through his orchard when he noticed that most of the leaves on his prized plum trees were severely curled. Close inspection of the leaves revealed huge numbers of what tiny green wingless insects?
aphids
5608. River Poems
This is from a poem about what river? We sail along the past, and see Great Thebes with Karnak at her knee. To Isis and Osiris rise The prayers and smoke of sacrifice. 'Mid rites of priests and pomp of kings Again the seated Memnon sings. We watch the palms along the shore, And dream of what is here no more. fa
ile
5609. Planarians
Planarians have what structures that allow them to see about as well as you can with your eyes shut?
eyespots
5610. Quantities
While force is a vector quantity, what kind of quantity is pressure?
scalar
5611. Engineers
Ferdinand de Lesseps successfully designed and built the Suez Canal. But his plan for what other canal in the Western Hemisphere proved too difficult, and led to his imprisonment?
Panama Canal
5612. Final Flags
On the last day of December in 1999, U.S. troops lowered the American flag for the last time over a region which, from that point forward, would be administered by what Latin American country?
Panama
5613. Woolly Creatures
Alpacas are mostly raised on the humid plateaus of what mountain range?
Andes
5614. Short Stories
These is advice given by the protagonist to a young sailor in what American short story? Remember, boy, that behind all these men, behind officers and government, and people even, there is the Country Herself, your Country, and that you belong to her as you belong to your own mother. Stand by her, boy, as you would stand by your mother.
The Man Without a Country
5615.
In 'Brave New World,' human embryos range from Alpha Plus Intellectuals to Epsilon Minus ...
Morons
5616. Body Systems
Which two body systems begin with 'r''?
respiratory, reproductive
5617. Ireland
Ireland is divided between the Republic of Ireland which encompasses about five sixths of the island and Northern Ireland which is part of what other country?
United Kingdom (Great Britain)
5618. Parasites
While parasites that live on the surface of the skin are called ectoparasites, those that live inside the host are called ...
endoparasites
5619. Variation
In this table, the ratio of x to y is what? y x 2 6 4 12 5 15 6 18
3 (or 3 to 1)
5620. Political Movements
What collective name that includes an ordinal number may be applied to these political groups? Anti-Masons Greenbackers Populists Libertarians Progressives
third parties
5621. Longitude
The prime meridian passes through how many continents?
three
5622. Land Claims
Spain and what other country have historical claims to Gibraltar?
Great Britain (United Kingdom)
5623. Deserts
Although it extends into Nevada and Arizona, what desert that occupies more than 25,000 square miles lies mainly in southeastern California?
Mojave
5624. Proverbs
What is the last word in this advice by Benjamin Franklin? If your head is wax, don't walk in the ...
sun
5625. Discoveries
At whose mill was gold discovered in California, setting off the gold rush of 1849?
Sutter's
5626. Woods
Hardwoods come from deciduous trees while softwoods come from what other kind of trees?
coniferous (evergreen)
5627. Religious Teachings
What are the following according to the Buddha? -All human life contains suffering and sorrow. -A desire for pleasure and material things causes suffering and sorrow. -Renouncing desire frees us from suffering. -Following the Eightfold Path leads to denial of desire and attainment of nirvana.
Four Noble Truths
5628. Labs and Laundry
What kind of apparatus in a laboratory operates on the same principle as the spin cycle of a washing machine that removes water from clothes?
centrifuge
5629. Legislation
Nebraska and Kansas were established as separate territories through what legislation?
Kansas-Nebraska Act
5630. Velocity
In free space, to the nearest thousand miles per second, what is the velocity of all electromagnetic waves?
186,000
5631. Government Responsibilities
Which branch of American government sees that federal laws, judgments of federal courts, and treaties are implemented and obeyed?
executive branch
5632. Energy
This describes what process? A slow-moving neutron smashes into the nucleus of a uranium isotope. It splits the nucleus into two new atomic nuclei plus several neutrons converting some of the mass into energy.
fission
5633. Medical Procedures
Dialysis is typically ordered for patients with damage to what organs?
kidneys
5634. Blood Typing
What is the only consonant used in the names for the
four major blood groups?
5635. Britain
What constituent country of the United Kingdom occupies the northern third of Great Britain?
Scotland
5636. Surrenders
Name the peninsula in the Philippines surrendered to the Japanese in 1942 by a beleaguered American force.
Bataan
5637. Colonial Ministers
When Roger Williams emigrated from England to Boston in 1631, he declined an offer to become minister of the first Boston congregation because it had not formally separated from what church?
Anglican (Church of England)
5638. Lightning
Through satellite measurements, we know that lightning occurs somewhere on Earth about 44 times per second. About 25% of these lightning flashes are cloud-to-ground, while 75% of them are cloud-to- what?
cloud
5639. Variation
When x = 2, y= 12. When x = 3, y = 18. When x = 4, y =24. What is y when x = 10?
60
5640. Scientific Notation
Three and one-fourth million equals 3.25 times ten to what power?
6th power
5641. Crustaceans
What freshwater crustaceans may dig burrows several feet deep into stream banks?
crayfish (crawfish)
5642. Mountaineering Controversy
The discovery of George Mallory's body in 1999 fueled speculation that he had actually beaten what other mountaineer to the summit of Mount Everest?
Edmund Hillary
5643. Meteorology Vocabulary
What kind of meteors are fog, mist, drizzle, rain, snow, hail, and mist?
hydrometeors
5644. Krill
What tough, semitransparent substance composes the exoskeletons of krill?
chitin
5645. Symbols
A five-pointed star symbolizes America. What symbol composed of two tools represented Communist ideology?
hammer, sickle
5646. Art Materials
What substance that has been carved into art objects since ancient times consists mostly of dentin and cementum?
ivory
5647. Mountains
What mountain system traverses these countries? India Tran Afghanistan
Himalayas
5648. Warplanes
These were military aircraft of what country in World War I? Junkers D.I Albatros D.III Fokker E.IV
Germany
5649. Inhalant Abuse
Inhaling butane gas can not only cause drowsiness, narcosis, asphyxia, and cardiac arrhythmia but also what other condition that usually results from prolonged exposure to subzero temperatures?
frostbite
5650. African Leaders
What former prisoner of nearly 30 years was elected president of his country in 1994, just two years after apartheid officially ended?
Nelson Mandela
5651. Scientific Method
Name the variable in a scientific experiment that is intentionally manipulated.
independent variable
5652. Hearts
All hearts consist of two types of chambers. The one where blood is gathered is called an ...
atrium
5653. Congress
How many people serve as whips in the U.S.
Congress?
5654.
What is the meaning of the abbreviation in this statement? The peat in the world's peatlands has been forming for 360 million years and contains some 550 Gt of carbon.
gigatons
5655. Bird Poems
This verse is from a poem about what kind of bird? My Aerie, built on craggy cliff, or in a tree top high. I soar above the reaching hills, on lifting winds I fly.
eagle (hawk, falcon, bird of prey)
5656. Glaciers
What adjective describes a stream that flows beneath a glacier?
subglacial
5657. Conflicts
The U.S. fought what country in 'Mr. Madison's War'?
Great Britain (England)
5658. Seas
What sea, named for the creatures that created the Great Barrier Reef, is due east of Queensland, Australia?
Coral Sea
5659. Fables
This is from what fable? Friend of fatherless! Fountain of happiness! Lord of the swill-bucket! Oh, how my soul is on Fire when I gaze at thy Calm and commanding eye, Like the sun in the sky, Comrade Napoleon! ,
Animal Farm
5660. Weapons
The first large-scale use of this weapon occurred in 1915 when the Germans launched an attack on Canadian and French troops near Ypres, France. Name the weapon.
poison gas (chlorine gas)
5661. Organs
The epiglottis closes over the larynx to prevent food and fluids from entering what tube that descends to the bronchi?
trachea
5662. Gyres
In the North Atlantic and North Pacific Oceans, the gyres flow in what clock direction?
clockwise
5663. The United Nations
In addition to Russia, what other two permanent members of the United Nations Security Council are European?
France, Great Britain
5664. Sports Math
In what sport do participants call out a solution to the following? Cube root of 64!
golf
5665. Political Pieces
These are the equivalent of U.S. states in what European country? Vestfold, Svalbard, Fjordane, Telemark, Nordland
Norway
5666. Political Etymology
The term for what political ideology is derived from a Greek word meaning 'without a ruler'?
anarchy
5667. Instruments
What is the basic instrument of a seismologist?
seismograph
5668. Algebra
Twelve less than a number is 14. What is the number?
26
5669. Chemical Poetry
What name completes this horrible ditty? Al Cohol is a guy with no pride. With his name he was not satisfied. So with no trepidation Underwent oxidation. And then was renamed AI de ...
Hyde
5670. Angular Velocity
If a crater on a moon moves 20 degrees in four hours, what is the moon's period of rotation?
72 hours
5671. Bells
Name the biggest bell in the clock tower at the northeastern end of the Houses of Parliament in London.
Big Ben
5672. Dance
In what kind of dancing are these moves found? forward and back ladies chain right and left grand promenade weave the ring do sa do
square dancing
5673. Literature
What is the common name for the courageous, noble protagonist of a story?
hero
5674. Caves
Name the stone formations hanging from the ceilings of Carlsbad Caverns and other large limestone caves.
stalactites
5675. Statues
What is the name for the characteristic statues of Easter Island?
moai
5676. Clouds
What affix attached to a cloud's name indicates an increased probability that precipitation will occur?
-nimbus
5677. International Conflict
A conflict between nations which does not involve the use of arms but is conducted by means of political and economic pressure is a ---- war.
cold
5678. Communications
Before they became major television networks, the National Broadcasting Company and the Columbia Broadcasting System were based on what kind of communications technology first developed by Lee De Forest?
radio
5679. Insect Flight
When dragonflies remain in the same spot in the air, this kind of flight is called ...
hovering
5680. English Explorations
In the late 16th century, the Englishman John Davis discovered what islands 480 miles northeast of Cape Horn that would become the object of a brief war between Argentina and Britain in 1982?
Falkland Islands (Malvinas)
5681.
What tales inspired Rimsky-Korsakov to compose 'Scheherazade'?
Arabian Nights
5682. Ceremonies
Name the ceremony in which a U.S. president is sworn into office.
inauguration
5683. President Paintings
A popular painting depicts George Washington on his way to what city in 1789 to be inaugurated as the first president of the U.S.?
New York City
5684. Clock Arithmetic
It is 8:00. To what number will the hour hand be pointing to in 29 hours?
1:00
5685. History of Math
Identify the Greek mathematician who said, 'All right angles are equal to one another.' and 'A finite line segment can be extended to a line of any length.'
Euclid
5686. Scientific Notation
Express this number as a decimal. 5.9 x 10 to the negative fourth power
0.00059
5687. Patriots
He was born in Coventry, Connecticut, and graduated from Yale College. He taught school until he joined the Continental Army. He was sent into British territory disguised as a Dutch teacher, but was captured and hanged as a spy at age 21. Name him.
Nathan Hale
5688. Wartime Foods
During World War I, what food was liberty cabbage?
sauerkraut
5689. Disasters
This is about what disaster on the American West Coast? Then the fires broke out, and the wooden architecture provided fuel for a blaze lasting three days. 514 city blocks burned, 28,000 buildings were destroyed, some 2,500 people were killed, and 300,000 or two-thirds of the city's population were homeless.
San Francisco earthquake
5690. Fins
What kind of fin that is obvious on killer whales is absent on sperm and baleen whales?
dorsal fin
5691. The Flicks
These are works of what motion picture director? Rebecca Suspicion The Lady Vanishes
Alfred Hitchcock
5692. Legends
According to legend, what empire was founded around 1100 by Manco Capac at what is now Cuzco, Peru?
Inca
5693. Canada
What region of Canada is just west of Nunavut?
Northwest Territories
5694. Mechanical Vocabulary
In a pulley system, the weight of the object being lifted is the load. Name the force exerted on the rope to lift the load.
effort
5695. Art
Artists refer to the surface character or 'feel' of any material as its what?
texture
5696. 4
This is about an incident in what future state? General Thomas Jesup requested a truce conference, but when Osceola complied, he was treacherously taken captive and died in prison less than three months later.
Florida
5697. African Geography
In which cardinal direction is a person traveling in Africa if he goes from Mauritania to Mali to Niger to Chad?
east
5698. Gerunds
What is the gerund in this example? Ripley put off repairing his roof until the water level rose above his television set.
repairing
5699. Debates
A famous series of debates involving what two men was held in 1858 in Ottawa, Freeport, Jonesboro, Charleston, Galesburg, Quincy, and Alton, Illinois?
Abraham Lincoln, Stephen Douglas
5700. Alaskan Mountains
Prior to 1980, Mt. Denali was known as ...
Mt. McKinley
5701. Traditions
Hindu tradition prohibits the killing what kind of domesticated animal?
cow
5702. Figures of Speech
What literary device is in these phrases? beloved enemy cruel kindness
oxymoron
5703. Islam
Muslims are supposed to make a pilgrimage to a site in what country at least once in their lives?
Saudi Arabia
5704. Aviation
What is the term for a non-rigid airship?
blimp
5705. Castle Architecture
What is the name for the building enclosing the gateway to a medieval castle?
gatehouse
5706.
Surtsey Island is off the southern coast of what country?
Iceland
5707.
An aerosol is a colloidal dispersion of a solid or liquid ina...
gas
5708. Cinema
The process of hiring actors to play the characters in a script is called ...
casting
5709. Temporary Headquarters
The first home of the U.S. government was on what New York street now known as the American financial center?
Wall Street
5710. Czars
What czar ruled the Russian Empire until March of 1917?
Nicholas II
5711. European History
It appeared in Constantinople in 1347 and proceeded to sweep across Europe, killing off one-third of the population in three years. What was it?
plague
5712. Tubers
Tuberous roots bear clusters of tubers that contain eyes from which new plants grow. What is another term for these eyes?
buds
5713. Time Measures
How many seconds are in one twenty-fourth of a mean solar day?
3600
5714. Tusks
Tusks are most commonly canines, as with warthogs, wild boars, and walruses, but in the case of elephants and narwhals, they are what other kind of elongated teeth?
incisors
5715. Eye Anatomy
What membrane in the eye contains cells that detect light?
retina
5716. Legends
What legendary character was born around 1160 at Locksley in Nottinghamshire?
Robin Hood
5717. Sunburn
What degree of sunburn does a person have whose reddish skin has some small, fluid-filled blisters?
second degree
5718. Novels
This is from what science fiction tale? Hammond whined, 'But what are you going to do to my animals?' 'That's not really the question, Mr. Hammond,' Muldoon said. 'The question is, what are they going to do to us?'
Jurassic Park
5719. Literary Forms
What literary form which attacks through ridicule, irony, and parody intends to arouse amused contempt for its target?
satire (spoof, lampoon)
5720. Civil War Songs
What prepositional phrase follows this line from the 'Battle Hymn of the Republic'? He hath loos'd the fateful lightning
Of His terrible swift sword
5721. Math Formulas
What is a general formula for finding the average of the five numbers v, w, x, y, and z?
(vtwtxtytz)/5
5722. Latin Graffiti
What is the last word in this palindrome found on the walls of a Roman tavern? Roma summus ...
amor
5723. Psychological Disorders
An involuntary, habitual, repetitive, nonrhythmic convulsive motion of certain muscles such eye twitching, muscle tensing, blinking, or grimacing is called a ...
tic
5724. Languages of the Lofty
What language do most people speak who live in the vicinity of the world's highest waterfall?
Spanish
5725. Muscles
A muscle twitch consists of three distinct periods. The latent period occurs prior to stimulation. After stimulation comes the contraction period. This is followed immediately by what period?
relaxation period
5726. Namesakes
In 1823, a Scotsman named Charles Macintosh found that he could make good raincoats by putting a layer of rubber between two layers of cloth. What name was given to his raincoats?
mackintoshes
5727. Invertebrates
If a creature has three pairs of legs on its thorax, it is a member of what class of arthropods?
Insecta (insect)
5728. Ancient Literature
These are the last lines of various stories by what ancient Greek? Beware lest you lose the substance by grasping at the shadow. Little friends may prove great friends. There is always someone worse off than yourself.
Aesop
5729. Medical Adjectives
When used in medicine, 'pneumonic' indicates what organ?
lung
5730. Imperialism
An 18th-century merchant ship landing in the Portuguese colony of Goa would have just crossed what body of water?
Arabian Sea
5731. Scary Stories
What story by Stephen King begins with this? Not so long ago, a monster came to the small town of Castle Rock, Maine.
Cujo
5732. Literary Forms
This illustrates what form of literature? Here lies Robert Wallis, Clerk of All Hallows, King of good fellows, And maker of bellows. He bellows did make till the day of his death, But he that made bellows could never make breath.
epitaph
5733. Hymns
What patriotic hymn by Samuel Francis Smith is based on a tune to which the English and the Austrian national anthems are set?
America
5734. Europeans
What is the nationality of these people? Abel Tasman, Anton van Leuwenhoek, Willem Barents, Killian Van Rensselaer, Vincent van Gogh, Peter Stuyvesant, M.C. Escher, Rembrandt van Rijn
Dutch
5735. Earth's Interior
What layer of the Earth encases the mantle?
crust
5736. Archaeology and Geology
Most cliff dwellings were constructed in which category of rock?
sedimentary rock
5737. Creative Writing
What literary device is used in this phrase? And the silken sad uncertain ...
alliteration
5738. Printing
What are the first two lowercase letters of the alphabet with ascenders?
b, d
5739. Involution
What is 1/3 to the fourth power?
1/81
5740. Monarchies
Saudi Arabia is an absolute monarchy, except that the king must comply with the Koran and what body of law?
Sharia law
5741. Last Voyages
What American president ordered the U.S.S. Maine into Havana Harbor to support American interests in Cuba?
William McKinley
5742. Mass Murders
In 1988, the military of what country used poison gas against Kurdish civilians in the town of Halabja, killing between 4,000 and 12,000 of its residents?
Iraq
5743. Geography
Mozambique is contiguous to what ocean?
Indian Ocean
5744. Plant Reproduction
As soon as an egg and sperm nucleus unite, the egg begins to divide, grow, and divide again many times, thus forming a very small plant. Name it.
embryo
5745. Tree Clearance
The removal of trees to convert a woodland into grazing land or farmland is called what?
deforestation
5746. The Constitution
The Constitution was adopted how many years after the U.S. first declared her independence?
41 (or 12)
5747. Disease
These diseases affect which body organs? bronchitis tuberculosis pneumonia
lungs
5748. Refugees
About two million people from Cambodia and what other Southeast Asian nation fled their countries between 1975 and 1980?
Vietnam
5749. River Branches
Name the two branches of the Nile that join at Khartoum in Sudan.
White Nile, Blue Nile
5750. Athlete Woes
Mr. Riordan played seven games of racquetball one afternoon. That evening, after climbing into bed, he pointed his toes during a big stretch and got an incredible pain in both calves. Such pains are called
cramps (spasms)
5751. Slithery Creatures
What South American snake that spends much of its time in water may grow thirty feet long?
anaconda
5752. Mammals
Name the smallest North American mammal.
shrew
5753. Verbs
These are examples of what type of verbs? should, might, must, will, does
helping (auxiliary) verbs
5754. Basic Chemistry
The unit of matter that results when two or more atoms are joined is called a ...
molecule
5755. Speedy Sprints
If a sprinter ran the 100-meter dash in 9.69 seconds, to the nearest tenth, what was his average speed for the race?
10.3 meters per second
5756. Maritime Firsts
This 1958 headline is about what vessel? Sub sails under the pole and 1,830 miles of Arctic icecap in Pacific-to-Atlantic passage
Nautilus
5757. Musicians
In his last year, he composed his the 'Pathetique,' described by Havelock Ellis as a 'homosexual tragedy.' Who was this composer?
Peter Tchaikovsky
5758. Praise
In 1788, Jefferson praised what cooperative work by Jay, Hamilton, and Madison as 'the best commentary on the principles of government which was ever written'?
Federalist Papers
5759. Novels
In a story by Patricia MacLachlan, when the widowed farmer, Jacob Witting, places a newspaper ad for a mail-order bride to help him with his children, what is the first name of the woman from Maine who travels to Kansas to join them?
Sarah
5760. 4
The transmission of non-native plants, animals, and diseases from Europe to the Americas, and vice versa, after 1492 is known as what exchange?
Columbian Exchange
5761. Foiled Again
In J.K. Rowling's stories, who is Harry Potter's foil?
Draco Malfoy
5762. Novels
In the novel, 'Holes,' Stanley Yetnats is given the choice of going to jail or to what camp?
Camp Green Lake
5763. Banking
It was primarily through whose efforts that the first Bank of the U.S. was established in 1791?
Alexander Hamilton
5764. Sports Sayings
How is this saying usually stated? A superb application of tactics to score points is a superlative procedure to deny the opposing team an opportunity to do the same.
The best defense is a good offense.
5765. Atoms
What negatively charged elementary particle normally resides outside of but is still bound to an atom's nucleus?
electron
5766. Freedom of Speech
What was the nationality of the person who is supposed to have said this in the 18th century? I do not agree with a word you say, but I will defend to the death your right to say it.
French
5767. Exponents
What is the square root of (a to the 8th times b to the 12th)?
a to the 4th times b to the 6th
5768. State Capitals
What is the capital of the state immediately north of Iowa?
St. Paul
5769. Downhill Injuries
Often resulting from skiing accidents, a tear of the ligament that attaches the thumb to one of the metacarpal bones in the palm is called ...
skier's thumb
5770. Fantasies
In 'The Lord of the Rings,' what is Strider's actual name?
Aragorn
5771. Limericks
What is the last word in this ditty by Edward Gorey? There was a young woman named Plunnery Who rejoiced in the practice of gunnery, Till one day unobservant, She blew up a servant, And was forced to retire to a ...
nunnery
5772. Popular Patriotic Songs
These words are from what patriotic song? I'm proud to be an American where at least I know I'm free, And I won't forget the men who died who gave that right to me, And I gladly stand up next to you and defend her still today, ‘Cause there ain't no doubt I love this land ...
God Bless the USA
5773. American Symbols
Name the flag consisting of a wide red border surrounding a white rectangle in the center of which is a blue star displayed by the immediate family of a person serving in the armed forces during a time of war.
Service Flag
5774. The Ocean Floor
These lie beneath which ocean? Fram Basin, Nansen Basin, Amerasian Basin, Eurasian Basin, Makarov Basin, Canada Basin
Arctic Ocean
5775. Volcanoes
Name the part of the volcano within which Crater Lake is situated.
caldera
5776. Geological Surfaces
Known as a 'reg' in the western Sahara and as a 'gibber' in Australia, what is the phrase in the U.S. for a desert surface covered with closely packed, often interlocking angular or rounded cobbles and pebbles?
desert pavement
5777. Quartiles
The first quartile equals what percentile?
25th percentile
5778. Complements
What is the subject complement in this? The relatively young volcano is not yet fully formed.
formed
5779. Streams
Unlike regular streams, what does a braided stream have in abundance?
channels (or bars)
5780. Misheard Lyrics
These are misheard lines from what patriotic song? -From every mouse inside -Let Rita sing -Of the icing -Land of the Pilgrim's bride
America (My Country Tis of Thee)
5781. Recessive Genes
One evening, you notice a raccoon chowing down on your cat's food. But unlike most raccoons, this one has no rings on its tail and is all white. What adjective describes this recessive characteristic?
albino
5782. Voltage
What is the voltage of seven nine-volt batteries connected in parallel?
9 volts
5783. Stars
Which of the four main classifications of stars is missing from this list? supergiants giants main sequence
dwarfs
5784. Metals
What is the only metal on the periodic table that is not solid at room temperature?
mercury
5785. Weight
You are on Earth's surface, 4000 miles from its center, and you weigh 117 pounds. How far from the center would you have to be in order to weigh 13 pounds?
12,000 miles
5786. Motion
You are riding along at 250 miles per hour on the Bonneville Salt Flats and run out of gas in your brakeless experimental vehicle. What force will eventually cause the vehicle to come to a stop?
friction
5787. Songs of Science Fiction
With what fictional data processing unit is the song, 'Daisy, Daisy,' associated?
Hal (9000)
5788. Kansas
The region that became Kansas was first acquired as a United States territory in what real estate deal?
Louisiana Purchase
5789. Tributes
Complete this ditty. Christiaan Barnard was the doc Who pioneered the heart swop op. When his patients all died, Was he in disgrace? No, because at least his heart Was in the ...
right place
5790. Disaster Poetry
This is about what ship? On Sunday, April 14, 1912, All was calm, all was well. Near midnight a cry went out - 'Iceberg right ahead!' was the shout. The watertight doors were shut to the sea, The wheel was spun port instinctively.
Titanic
5791. Pronouns
What category of pronouns is illustrated in these examples? The angels preened each others' wings. The two ghosts slimed each other. The spies gossiped with one another.
reciprocal
5792. Triangles
Given that the two base angles of a triangle are each 60 degrees and that the length of a side from the
vertex to the base is 9, what is the length of the base?
5793. Nonsense Verse
Who wrote this? King and Queen of the Pelicans we; No other Birds so grand we see! None but we have feet like fins! With lovely leathery throats and chins! Ploffskin, Pluffskin, Pelican jee! We think no birds so happy as we! Plumpskin, Ploshkin, Pelican jill! We think so then, and we thought so still!
Edward Lear
5794. Electrolysis
Depositing a thin layer of a metal on an object by means of electrolysis is called ...
electroplating
5795. Literary Passages
This was written by whom? Struggling to get free, I managed to break the strings and wrench out the pegs that held my left arm and hair to the ground, but the creatures ran off again before I could seize them.
Jonathan Swift
5796. Nonfiction
What is the collective name for these kinds of nonfictional works? manual, guidebook, handbook, concordance
references
5797. Algae Analogies
Phytoplankton is microscopic while seaweed is what?
macroscopic
5798. Mountains
The highest Himalayan peak is in what nation?
Nepal
5799. Colonial Communications
Partly in response to the Stamp Act, the Gaspee Affair, the Currency Act, and the Tea Act, what committees were formed to encourage communications between the colonies?
committees of correspondence
5800. Oceanic Landforms
What results when two caves on opposite sides of a headland join?
sea arch
5801. Zoological Sociology
What adjective indicates any animal that has only a single mate?
monogamous
5802. Navigators
Juan Sebastian del Cano was hailed in 1522 as the first circumnavigator. He had become commander of the expedition when the original leader was killed in what island group?
Philippines
5803. Religious Communities
The name for what kind of monastery or convent was derived from the Latin word 'abbatia'?
abbey
5804. Trapezoids
The lengths of the parallel sides of a trapezoid are 10 and 20 feet. Its height is 20 feet. What is its area?
300 square feet
5805. Forms of Government
What is the title of the ruler in Brunei?
sultan
5806. Mideast Revolutions
In 1979, what country that had been a staunch ally of the United States was taken over by the Shiite leader, Ayatollah Khomeini?
lran
5807. Force
The effort force distance divided by the resistance force distance equals what?
ideal mechanical advantage
5808. Bone Math
What is the total number of malleus, incus, and stapes
bones in one body?
5809. Weather Warnings
What kind of warning is posted if these conditions are expected in a specified coastal area within 24 hours? -sustained winds of 74 mph or higher -dangerously high water and waves
hurricane warning
5810. Mammal Novels
Anna Sewell wrote about a horse with what name?
Black Beauty
5811. Botany
Buds are undeveloped parts of growing plants that may develop into shoots, leafs, or what?
flowers
5812. Algebraic Simplification
Simplify -13x + 2x.
-11x
5813. Pressure
Pressure is not simply force, but force per ...
area
5814. Motility
An amoeba moves about by pushing out part of itself. This extended part of its cell is a false foot or ...
pseudopod
5815. Squares
The perimeter of a square is 436 feet. What is the length of any two of its sides?
218 feet
5816. Milestone Documents
What word follows 'forever' in this line from a 19th-century document? That on the first day of January, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty-three, all persons held as slaves within any State or designated part of a State, the people whereof shall then be in rebellion against the United States, shall be then, thenceforward, and forever ... f
Tee
5817. Imaging
The name for what kind of three-dimensional imaging was derived from the Greek words meaning 'Whole' and 'writing'?
holograph (hologram)
5818. Monarchs
By their names, you can surmise that these were monarchs of what country? Inge Baardsson Svein Knutsson Erik Haraldsson Sigurd Magnusson
Norway
5819. Landforms
Deep sea fans have the same basic shape as what other fans found at the base of steep canyons that open onto plains at the base of mountains?
alluvial fans
5820. The Arts
What is the collective name these art forms? juggling, magic, acrobatics, dance, stand-up comedy, storytelling
performing arts
5821. Poetic Settings
What town is the site of the baseball game in the poem by Ernest Lawrence Thayer?
Mudville
5822. Etymology
The term 'equinox' is derived from the two Latin words 'aequi' and 'nox' which mean 'equal' what?
night
5823. Architecture
It consists of a base, a cylindrical shaft, and a capital. Name this supporting pillar typical of Greek architecture.
column
5824. The Old West Prairie
Name the dried organic substance abundant on the Great Plains in the 1860s that could be used as fuel.
buffalo chips
5825. Unusual Homes
She built an enormous house with doors opening into blank walls and staircases leading nowhere. At the time of her death, the house contained 160 rooms, 950 doors, 47 fireplaces, and some10,000 window panes. This heiress of an American rifle company was Sarah who?
Winchester
5826. Traditions
These are or have been orders of what? The Bath The Star of India The Royal Victorian The Garter
knighthood
5827. Ancient Art
Around what sea adjacent to the Mediterranean did Mycenaean art flourish?
Aegean
5828. Greek Myths
What mythical race that dwelled in the mountains of Thessaly and Arcadia were men with the bodies of horses?
centaurs
5829. Numismatics
Name the first woman depicted on a U.S. coin.
Susan Anthony
5830.
The taking up of a gas by a solid or al or the taking up of a liquid by a solid, is called ..
absorption
5831.
The ancient Greeks often placed a coin in the mouth of a corpse to pay what ferryman to carry the soul across the River Styx?
Charon
5832. Tycoons
What American railroad tycoon was known as 'the Commodore'?
Cornelius Vanderbilt
5833. Giants
He stole the bells of Notre Dame Cathedral to hang on his mare's neck. His mare's tail felled the entire Forest of Orleans. He entered the world through Gargamelle's left ear shouting 'drink - drink - drink.' What did Rabelais name this giant?
Gargantua
5834. Disasters
In 1946, people and houses in Hawaii were swept out to sea by what catastrophic phenomenon caused by an earthquake five hours earlier in the Aleutians, 2300 miles away?
tsunami
5835. Bird Palindromes
The plural form of the name of what bird begins this palindrome? ---- sail I assume.
emus
5836. U
If a staff member has just received an order directly from the Oval Office, what is the title of the person who issued it?
president
5837. Railroad Growth
In 1860, there were 30,000 miles of railroad tracks in the U.S. By the turn of the century, that number had grown 640% to a total of how many miles?
192,000
5838. The Mideast
Israelis and people of what other ethnic group have regional authority in various parts of the West Bank?
Palestinians
5839. Ocean Currents
The west wind drift current flows from what direction to what direction?
west to east
5840. Drawings
You have just drawn a human form consisting only of lines and a circle for the head. Such a representation is called a ...
stick figure
5841. Statue Adjectives
What adjective in the poem, 'The New Colossus,' on the base of the Statue of Liberty is a synonym for crowded, abounding, overflowing, and swarming?
teeming
5842. Federal Buildings
Statuary Hall, the Great Rotunda, and the Senate Chamber are in what building?
Capitol
5843. 5
In the midst of the Mesozoic era, the dominant life forms belonged to what taxonomic class?
reptiles
5844. Numbers
What is the twenty-third ordinal number?
23
5845.
What is the phrase for a serialized melodrama for daytime television?
soap opera (soap)
5846. Vitamin Deficiencies
Resulting from vitamin-D insufficiency, osteomalacia is softening and weakening of ...
bones
5847. Novels
When the freighter on which they are traveling is torpedoed by a German submarine during World War II, an adolescent white boy, blinded by a blow on the head, and an old West Indian sailor are stranded on a tiny Caribbean island. Based on a term for a small, low island in that region, name this novel by Theodore Taylor.
The Cay
5848. Amendments
What part of the Bill of Rights relates to this statement made after John Peter Zenger was acquitted in 1735? You have laid a noble foundation for securing that to which nature has given us a right - the liberty - both of exposing and opposing arbitrary power by speaking and writing truth.
{st amendment
5849. Fuels
What fuel can be produced either by breaking down hydrocarbons or by electrolysis of water?
hydrogen
5850. Lava
A jet of lava sprayed into the air by the rapid formation and expansion of gas bubbles in the molten rock is called a lava ...
fountain
5851. Jupiter
What feature on Jupiter is an oval 14,000 kilometers wide and 28,000 kilometers long?
Great Red Spot
5852. Bird Allusions
What bird is associated with derision?
mockingbird
5853. Fictional Immortality
What character in 'Tuck Everlasting' ultimately decides not to drink from a vial of water that would make her immortal?
Winnie
5854. Crime
What are disassembled in chop shops?
(stolen) automobiles
5855. Passings
This is from a 1995 obituary about whom? Born to Boston ward politics, she became the matriarch of America's tragic royal family.
Rose Kennedy
5856. Marine Biology in the News
In 2012, scientists reported sighting a totally white orca. What kind of whale is this?
killer whale
5857. Verbiage
What words could be omitted from this example without changing its meaning? Legislators are already in the process of reviewing the statutes.
in the process of
5858. Communications
Any information or rumors deliberately spread widely to help or harm a person or nation illustrates what form of literature?
propaganda
5859. 1
The most distant part of the Spanish Empire consisted of what major Pacific archipelago?
Philippines
5860. Straits
The Korean Strait separates South Korea from what country to its east?
Japan
5861. Fictional Characters
What character created by Saul Bellow says there is an 'animal ridens in me, the laughing creature, forever rising up'?
Augie March
5862. Fish Attacks
In 2013, some 60 people in the Argentine city of Rosario were injured in a ferocious fish attack. What kind of aggressive river fish were involved?
piranhas
5863. Consecutive Integers
What are three consecutive integers such that the product of the second and third exceeds the square of the first by 8?
2, 3,4
5864. Sentence Grammar
What three words are misplaced in this line? At the picnic, Sally served sundaes to hungry guests in paper cups.
in paper cups
5865. Explorations
Whose voyage is described below? They set forth on the sea of darkness on August 3 with just a compass and astrolabe. Then on October 12 they spotted the sand cliffs of what is now known as Watling Island.
Columbus
5866. Algebraic Operations
What is the product of -3x times 2(x squared)?
-6(x cubed)
5867. Paintings
These are examples of what kind of portraits? Frida Kahlo's 'The Two Fridas' Pablo Picasso's 'Pablo Picasso' Vincent Van Gogh's 'Vincent Van Gogh' Andy Warhol's 'Andy Warhol'
self-portraits
5868. Long, High Trails
What lengthy, lofty, national scenic trail goes through New Mexico, Colorado, Wyoming, Idaho, and Montana?
Continental Divide Trail
5869. Reproduction
What is the term for a cell, a group of cells, or an organism produced by asexual reproduction that contains genetic material identical to that of the parent cell or organism?
clone
5870. Agreement
Correct this ill-conceived sentence. There exists in this land many creatures that I would prefer not to feed.
exist
5871. Riots
In 1965, a highway patrolman stopped a black driver for speeding. A crowd gathered and tempers flared. Two days later, 34 people were dead and over 35 million dollars in damages had occurred. These riots were in what part of Los Angeles?
Watts
5872. War Nicknames
Mad Anthony Wayne received his nickname for his reckless and daring leadership during what armed conflict?
American Revolution
5873. Science Fiction
What tale by Edgar Rice Burroughs is about the Iron Mole, a submarine for land that takes passengers into the inner Earth, a region inhabited by strange creatures?
At the Earth's Core
5874. Latin Roots
What is the meaning of the root in mortify, mortification, immortalize, and mortality?
death
5875. The Dramatic Stage
In a diagram of a typical stage, for what do the abbreviations UR and UL stand?
upstage right, upstage left
5876. Inscriptions
What is the location of the plaque bearing this inscription? July 1969 A.D. We came in peace for all mankind.
Moon
5877. Complex Chemicals
What is the meaning of the abbreviation in this line about refrigerants? Today, safer fluids called hydrofluorocarbons have replaced CFCs in refrigeration equipment.
chlorofluorocarbons
5878. Compound Words
What phrase refers to the type of traffic accident in which the driver of a motor vehicle drives on after striking a pedestrian or another vehicle?
hit-and-run
5879. Artisans
A noted 18th-century English furniture maker was Thomas ...
Chippendale
5880. Organic Chemistry
They are components of nucleotides such as guanine and adenine. They are proton acceptors or electron donors in solution. Name this general category of compounds.
bases
5881. Heavenly Chunks
Asteroids that come close to our planet are called ...
Earth-approaching (near-Earth) asteroids
5882. The Constitution
After rejecting the Virginia and the New Jersey plans, delegates voted in favor of the Connecticut Compromise, with each state having an equal vote in the Senate and the House membership based on state population. This agreement is better known as the ...
Great Compromise
5883. Poe
What story by Edgar Allan Poe is narrated by a man who has been invited to visit his childhood friend named Roderick?
The Fall of the House of Usher
5884. Science Fiction
This is from what Kurt Vonnegut story? Billy is spastic in time, has no control over where he is going next, and the trips aren't necessarily fun. He is in a constant state of stage fright, he says, because he never knows what part of his life he is going to have to act in next.
Slaughterhouse Five
5885. Acids
What adjective describes an acid with a basicity of one?
monobasic
5886. Art History
He designed and printed currency, cast church bells and cannon in bronze, fashioned ornate andirons, and pioneered copper plating in America. Name this goldsmith, engraver, silversmith, and hero of the American War of Independence.
Paul Revere
5887. History of Africa
Much of the credit for establishing Belgian domain in Central Africa and the Congo area in particular goes to what explorer sent there by King Leopold?
Henry Stanley
5888. Ozone
Name either of the two atmospheric layers in which ozone is abundant.
stratosphere, troposphere
5889. Continents
That portion of a continent submerged to depths less than 150 meters is called the continental what?
shelf
5890. Counting the Days
What Asian calendar has been in continuous use for over 2000 years?
Chinese calendar
5891. History of Japan
Japan lost all of her overseas possessions as a result of what war?
World War II
5892. Historical Punnery
What European leader's name is punned in this line? When an explosion wrecked a Paris floor-covering store, the headline read 'Linoleum Blown Apart.'
Napoleon Bonaparte
5893. Nuclear War
What is the compound word for nuclear weapons capacity in excess of that needed to destroy an enemy?
overkill
5894. Chemical Reactions
Carbon monoxide can be reacted with steam to produce carbon dioxide and what gas?
hydrogen
5895. Mollusks
Name the largest bivalve mollusk that lives in the ocean near the East Indies.
(giant) clam
5896. Pronouns
For what does the relative pronoun stand in this example? Neither she nor her brother had much appreciation for opera, which sounded like a hog-calling contest to them.
opera
5897. Birds
The habitat of maritime birds is in or near what?
oceans (seas)
5898. Matter
What is lacking in glass, rubber, amorphous silicon, amorphous metal, and amorphous ice?
form (crystalline structure, crystals)
5899. Drug Addiction
Mordecai is addicted to crack cocaine. He sought help in a clinic where he was deprived of the drug, resulting in what group of symptoms?
withdrawal
5900. Homonyms
Spell the word meaning 'to search with the intent to steal' that is a homonym for another word meaning a firearm fired from the shoulder.
rifle
5901. Efficiency
A drill with an efficiency of 60% is run by a motor with an efficiency of 80%. What is the overall efficiency of this combination?
48%
5902. Planetary Positions
An inferior planet is in inferior conjunction when it is between what two heavenly bodies?
Earth, Sun
5903. Fossils
Paleontologists refer to the cavity around which a cast is formed as a ...
mold
5904. Plant Roots
Name the thimble-shaped mass of cells that covers and protects the tip of a root.
cap
5905. Chemical Compounds
Any chemical compound that does not have at least one C in its formula belongs to what broad class of compounds?
inorganic compounds
5906. Laos
Laos is one of the four nations in the opium-poppy-growing region known as what triangle?
Golden Triangle
5907. Purchasing Problems
When you asked Rocky what he paid for his Bullwinkle statue, he said, 'If you multiply my price by 4, add 70 to that product, and subtract 50 from that sum, the remainder is $220.' So, how much did Rocky pay for the statue?
$50
5908. Poetry
The regular measured rhythm characteristic of verse is called what?
meter
5909. Solutions
Solutions having pH values below 7 are ...
acidic
5910. Conflicts
These events occurred in what series of wars? -Rome seized Sardinia from Carthage -Hannibal crossed the Alps -Rome destroyed Corinth
Punic Wars
5911. Caribbean Cities
Identify the largest city and chief seaport of Haiti.
Port-au-Prince
5912. Gases
What gas has 93 percent of the lifting capacity of hydrogen?
helium
5913. Historic Births
Who was the first English child born in North America?
Virginia Dare
5914. Rivers
The mouth of the Brazos River is in what body of water?
Gulf of Mexico
5915. Plates
Name the great plate upon which Oman and Saudi Arabia ride.
Arabian plate
5916. Conflicts
These were all conflicts between Arab forces and the military of what country? Suez War Six-Day War First Lebanon War First Intifada Gaza War Yom Kippur War
Israel
5917. Judges
A federal judge caught taking bribes from the South Koreans could be impeached by what body?
House of Representatives
5918. Astronomical Theories
What theory for the origin of the universe suggests that all matter was once concentrated in a single unstable mass?
big bang theory
5919. Psychology
After a severe fall, Larry could not remember where he lived or what his wife's name was or whether or not he had ever been in the military. These characteristics indicate that Larry suffers what neurosis?
amnesia
5920. Forests
What adjective indicates those mid-latitude forests of trees that lose their leaves during winter months?
deciduous
5921. Elections
The framers of the Constitution made one last-ditch defense against an overdose of democracy by creating what body by which American presidents would actually be elected?
Electoral College
5922. Algebraic Evaluation
Evaluate y - xz given the following values.
x = -2, y =3, and z= -4.
5923. Hemingway
This describes what Ernest Hemingway novel? Henry cannot pursue a military career because he had deserted his post. He cannot pursue architecture because he gave that up to join the army. He finally just wants to lead an ordinary, married life with Catherine and his son, but they both die.
A Farewell to Arms
5924. Meaning
The adjectives 'assertive' and 'pushy' both mean conspicuously energetic or active, but the former suggests characteristics like determination and self-confidence, while the latter implies officiousness, rudeness, and offensive forwardness. What is the term for such suggested meanings?
connotations
5925. Science Fiction
At the end of '1984,' whom did Winston Smith love?
Big Brother
5926. Operas
The name of what aria in Bizet's 'Carmen' could be translated as 'The Bullfighter Song'?
Toreador Song
5927. Legendary Adjectives
What adjective indicates any piece of literature relating to the son of Uther Pendragon?
Arthurian
5928. Medical Talk
What word has these meanings? -threatening to life -virulent -tending to metastasize
malignant
5929. The Regolith
Name that portion of the regolith that contains organic material capable of nourishing plant life.
soil (topsoil)
5930. International Relations
In 1980, Canadians helped six Americans escape from their besieged embassy in what country?
lran
5931. Muscle Problems
What is the name for a sustained, spasmodic contraction of a muscle, usually accompanied by severe localized pain?
cramp
5932. Demands
'Liberty - Equality - Fraternity' was the battle cry in what revolution?
French Revolution
5933. Color Vision
Consider an object that reflects equal amounts of red and green light, stimulating the red and green cones equally. As a result, the viewer perceives what color?
yellow
5934. Big Numbers
How many zeroes are in the decimal representation of a googol?
100
5935. 2
If you buy something in another country and take it home to the U.S., the merchandise must be cleared at the port of entry. It may be subject to extra charges collected by the government called what?
duties (tariffs)
5936. Verbs
What kind of verbs are the first verbs in each of these sentences? We will eat crow. It might rain in Spain. You must pay the rent. I can paddle a boat, canoe?
auxiliary (or helping) verbs
5937. Glass
What does glass lack that all minerals have?
crystallization
5938. Clothing
What term indicates the style of clothing that characterizes a particular country or historic period?
costume
5939. Local Officials
The M.E. is a physician authorized to ascertain causes of deaths. For what does this abbreviation stand?
medical examiner
5940. Algebraic Factoring
Factor x squared plus 8x plus 12.
(x+2)(x+6)
5941. Locomotion
The beating of what tiny hairs enables the ciliary movement of many single-celled organisms?
cilia
5942. Color
What is the collective name for colors formed by mixing any two of these three colors? red, yellow, blue
secondary colors
5943. Criminal Activity
To knowingly assist another person in the commission of a crime is to aid and ...
abet
5944. Explorations
This is from a journal about what expedition? As we went along, our hopes of seeing the waters of the Columbia arose to painful anxiety. After four miles, we reached a small gap formed by the mountains. We had reached the hidden sources of that river which had never yet been seen by civilized man.
Lewis and Clark
5945. Provocative Punctuation
What word for a punctuation mark completes this controversial statement that remained on the WhiteHouse.gov site well after millions of health plans had been cancelled in 2013? For Americans with insurance coverage who like what they have, they can keep it. Nothing in this act or anywhere in the bill forces anyone to to change the insurance they have.
period
5946. Light
Light rays converge when they pass through convex lenses. What shape of a mirror also tends to converge light rays?
concave
5947. Motions
Which of Newton's laws of motion essentially says that objects keep on doing what they're doing?
(1st law
5948. Disease Etymology
The name for what acute viral disease was derived from rabere, the Latin word for rage?
rabies
5949. Rectangles
Find the height of a rectangle with a 10 yard base and an area of 180 square yards.
18 yards
5950. Architecture
What architectural structure first widely used in ancient Rome is incorporated in Eskimo igloos?
dome
5951. Health Disorders
Name the condition in which the body or one of its components is invaded by a virus or microorganism which multiplies to produce injurious effects.
infection
5952. Feeding
What marine creature uses hundreds of its tube feet to pull open the shells of clams and oysters?
starfish
5953. Waves
What broad category of waves consists of two perpendicular transverse waves, one component of the wave being a vibrating electric field while the other is a corresponding magnetic field?
electromagnetic waves
5954. Drama
What is the term for an opportunity to read for a part in a play?
audition
5955. Drug Wars
The two Opium Wars fought in the nineteenth century involved Great Britain and what other country?
China
5956. Lewis Carroll
In 'The Hunting of the Snark,' the banker loses his sanity after being attacked by a frumious what?
Bandersnatch
5957. Liquids
A liquid partially fills a closed container. Some molecules escape into the gas phase. Some of these reenter the liquid phase. Eventually the rate of condensation equals the rate of evaporation and there is no net change in the number of molecules in the gas phase. This is the ---- pressure of the liquid.
vapor
5958. Bacteria
Most bacteria are rod-shaped, spiral-shaped, or ...
round
5959. Fractured Proverbs
What proverb is restated here? Quiescent aqueous fluids flow unplumbed.
Still waters run deep.
5960. Industrialists
In the quiet Brandywine Valley of Delaware, the son of a French immigrant started the gunpowder works that would become the largest chemical company in the world. Name it.
DuPont (E.l. du Pont de Nemours and Company)
5961. Legal Documents
What document filed with the state or county health department lists a mother and father and contains the place, date, and time of a child's entry into the world?
birth certificate
5962. Medieval History
Medieval craftsmen who migrated to the cities had to join what kind of organization before they could work?
guild
5963. Elections
How many of the 435 seats in the U.S. House of Representatives are up for election in midterm elections?
435
5964. Animal Tales
This is from what story by Marjorie Kinnan? Somewhere beyond the sink-hole, past the magnolia, under the live oaks, a boy and a yearling ran side by side, and were gone forever.
The Yearling
5965. Big Buildings
It is the world's tallest freestanding stone building. Name this structure in the District of Columbia.
Washington Monument
5966. Colonies
What British crown colony is southeast of Argentina?
Falkland Islands
5967. Colonial Settlements
The Saybrook Colony and the New Haven Colony were settlements in the region that became what U.S. state?
Connecticut
5968. Survivors
Created by Eleanor Coerr, what literary character stricken with leukemia has been described as the Anne Frank of Hiroshima?
Sadako (Sadako Sasaki)
5969. Prodigies
Name the Salzburg-born musical infant prodigy who composed operas while still a child.
Mozart
5970. Lizard Fat
The Gila monster store its fat in its abdomen and in what other part of its body?
tail
5971. Persuasion
What argumentative technique is in this line? Everyone agrees that poverty is no excuse for hurting other people.
generalizations
5972. Memorials
In what U.S. state is the Soldiers and Sailors Memorial Arch, the first permanent memorial arch in America that honors the 4,000 Hartford citizens who served in the Civil War, and the 400 who died for the Union?
Connecticut
5973. Math
A number placed before a quantity which multiplies that quantity is called a ...
coefficient
5974. Theaters
The Bolshoi Theatre is located in what Eastern European city?
Moscow
5975. The Constitution
These are checks on which branch of government? -overriding vetoes -refusing confirm treaties -impeaching the commander in chief
executive
5976. Composers
What was the nationality of the composer of 'The Nutcracker Suite'?
Russian
5977. Mythology
Who eloped with Paris and caused her husband, Menelaus, to gather the Greeks and attack Troy?
Helen
5978. Folktales
According to a tale by Charles Perrault, Fatima was briefly married to what wealthy aristocrat?
Bluebeard
5979. Organic Chemistry
Low-density lipoprotein and high-density lipoprotein are examples of what steroid chemical present in many fatty foods?
cholesterol
5980. Triangles
If two angles of a triangle are equal, the sides opposite these angles are ...
equal
5981. Novels
This is from what American novel set in the 1930s in southern Alabama? To begin with, this case should never have come to trial. The state has not produced one iota of medical evidence that the crime Tom Robinson is charged with ever took place.
To Kill a Mockingbird
5982. Muscles
These muscles are located in what region of the human body? pyramidalis transversus abdominis rectus abdominis
abdomen
5983. Insects
All flies develop through what four stages of metamorphosis?
egg, larva, pupa, adult
5984. Entertainment
With what form of entertainment was Phineas Taylor Barnum associated?
circus
5985. Detectives
The private investigative agency founded by whom was the only repository of pictures of criminals and facts about them until the FBI was created?
Allan Pinkerton
5986. Multinational Organizations
For what multinational organization does the abbreviation, EFTA, stand?
European Free Trade Association
5987. Koalas
Koalas live in eastern Australia in forests of what kind of trees?
eucalyptus
5988. Prose Accounts
What word indicating an account of historical events is missing in these titles? The Martian ---- The Prydain ---- The ---- of Narnia The Littlepage ---- The ---- of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle
Chronicles
5989. Sports Doggerel
Who said these things in 1962? -I'll say it again, I've said it before, Archie Moore will fall in four. -He knocks them all out in the round he'll call, And that's why he's called the greatest of all.
Cassius Clay (Muhammad Ali)
5990. Ornamentation
What hyphenated noun indicates knickknacks or keepsakes placed about a room for ornamentation?
bric-a-brac
5991. Evaluation of Expressions
Given that A is 4, B is 3, and C is 2, evaluate this expression. B(5A) - C squared
56
5992. Medical Etymology
What medical term was taken from the Latin words meaning 'against' and 'a way of life'?
antibiotic
5993. Fish Anatomy
A gas-filled structure inside the body of many fish which lightens them so they can drift in the water without sinking is called the swim what?
bladder
5994. Latin American Lakes
Gatun Lake is an extensive artificial lake in what Central American country?
Panama
5995. Robotics
An android is a machine built to look or act like a human. A system that is part human and part robot is called a ...
cyborg
5996. Presidents
What U.S. president was in Washington, D.C. just before the British invaded and burned the city?
James Madison
5997. Medieval Weaponry
Any sort of weapon used to break through city walls and fortifications is known as what kind of engine?
siege engine
5998. Battery Ratings
A battery rating of 1200 milliamp-hours is the same
as how many amp-hours?
5999. Petroleum
What adjective describes petroleum before it has been refined?
crude
6000. Ocean Waves
The greatest height that a mid-ocean wave can have is about one-seventh of its wavelength. When this is exceeded the wave becomes too steep and will break causing a ...
whitecap
6001. Europe
Part of Belgium borders what sea?
North Sea
6002. Windows
What material comprises the elaborate windows in Canterbury Cathedral and the cathedral at Chartres?
stained glass
6003. Materials Science
What is the name for materials formed by trapping countless gas bubbles in a solid or liquid?
foam
6004. Colonial Chronology
What empire began with the capture of Ceuta in 1415 and ended with either the handover of Macao in 1999 or the granting of sovereignty to East Timor in 2002?
Portuguese Empire
6005. Matter
In which state of matter are atoms or molecules arranged in definite fixed patterns?
solid
6006. Babylon
Talents, minas, and shekels were all used in ancient Babylon as ...
money (currency, coins)
6007. Skeletal Homonyms
Spell the name of a bone in the arm that is a homonym for a word meaning 'funny' or 'comical.'
humerus
6008. Utah History
Ogden, Utah is the closest sizable city to what site where the first transcontinental railroad was completed in 1869?
Promontory (Promontory Summit)
6009. Western Rivers
Name the southern of the two major rivers that drain central California.
San Joaquin
6010. Confluences
Name any state adjacent to the confluence of the Ohio and Mississippi rivers.
Illinois, Missouri, Kentucky
6011. Spoonerisms
Complete this Tom Swifty. 'I don't care for Sinatra,' said Tom ...
frankly
6012. Valleys
Narragansett Bay, Delaware Bay, and San Francisco Bay are all examples of drowned river valleys called what?
rias
6013. Fossil Fuels
The value of fossil fuels relies on the exothermic oxidation of carbon to form carbon dioxide and the oxidation of hydrogen to form what substance?
water
6014. Percentage
There are 350 people wanting Mr. Bush to give them a job. 64% of these people have read Mr. Tower's book, 'How to Win Friends and Influence Senators.' What percent of the job applicants have read Mr. Tower's book?
224
6015. Clauses
What is the function of the dependent clause in this example? How the shroud first came into existence is a subject of much debate and conjecture.
subject of sentence
6016. Careers
What is the abbreviation for the field which involves establishing, developing, and maintaining favorable relationships between a public or private entity and society?
PR
6017. Pilgrims
The Pilgrims were supposed to settle in Virginia but ended up founding the Plymouth Colony in Massachusetts. Because they were outside the jurisdiction of the London Company, they established their own government in a document called the ...
Mayflower Compact
6018. Marine Biology
Red tides are caused by enormous growths of what kind of plant life?
(fire) algae
6019. Picture Captions
This caption was under a picture illustrating what religion? Brahman studying sacred Vedas.
Hindu
6020. Sequels
The novel, 'Scarlett,' by Alexandra Ripley is a modern sequel to what other work written by another author in the 1930s?
Gone with the Wind
6021. Wordplay
What form of wordplay is illustrated in these lines? -Corduroy pillows are making headlines. -Sea captains don't like crew cuts. -A gossip is someone with a sense of rumor.
pun
6022. Currency Exchange
If 1 shekel equals .2 euros and 1 euro equals 130 yen, then 10 shekels equals how many yen?
260
6023. Heart Throbs
What is the general name for an abnormal heart sound?
murmur
6024. Turpentine
Turpentine is manufactured from what complex substance secreted by plants?
resin
6025. Science History Limericks
What name is missing at the beginning of this limerick? ---- the well known truth-seeker, Jumping out of his bath, cried 'Eureka!' He ran half a mile, Wearing only a smile, And became the very first streaker.
Archimedes
6026. Special Temperatures
What is the phrase for the temperature at which conversion of a solid to a liquid begins?
melting point
6027. Novels
The story, 'Where the Red Fern Grows,' has three main characters, two of which are what kind of mammals?
dogs (canines)
6028. Caribbean Puns
The name of what capital city is missing in this punnish statement? Visitors to Cuba are usually ---- good time.
Havana
6029. Derogatory Idioms
Lawyers who encourage people who have been injured or become ill to sue for compensation are known as ...
ambulance chasers
6030. Elephant Ivory
Enamel, present only in the tips of young elephant tusks, is worn off and not replaced. What substance comprises about 95% of their tusks?
dentin (or dentine)
6031. Modular Arithmetic
You are calculating in arithmetic modulo 12. If you
add 8 + 7 you get what?
6032. Blood
Name the process by which blood forms clots.
coagulation (thrombogenesis)
6033. Ancient Literature
This is from what work of the 9th century B.C.? Speak to me, Muse, of the adventurous man who wandered long after he sacked the sacred citadel of Troy.
Odyssey
6034. Imperialism
What European country that remained neutral during the First World War had, at the time, one of the most valuable colonial empires in the world?
Holland (Netherlands)
6035. First Aid
Following an injury, if the circulatory system fails, blood pressure drops, and insufficient oxygen reaches the tissues, what medical condition occurs?
shock
6036. Malapropisms
What word should the Texas Speaker of the House have used when he said the following? This is unparalyzed in the state's history.
unparalleled
6037. Palindromes
What is the last word in this palindrome? Some men interpret nine ...
memos
6038. Salty Waters
Name the world's deepest hypersaline lake whose shores are also the world's lowest land elevation.
Dead Sea
6039. Oceanic Currents
The Falkland Current is adjacent to what continent?
South America
6040. Body Metaphors
What part of the eye could be described as a self-adjusting aperture?
pupil
6041. Lewis Carroll
What character in 'Alice in Wonderland' spoke these words? What matters it how far we go? The scaly friend replied, There is another shore, you know, Upon the other side.
Mock Turtle
6042. Animal Anatomical Proverbs
Complete this proverb. You can't make a silk purse from a ...
sow's ear
6043. Mathematical Systems
Computers use the binary system. We ordinarily use the decimal system. But the ancient Babylonians used the sexagesimal system that used what number as its base?
60
6044. Astrology
What is the astrological sign for the lion?
Leo
6045. Anteaters
What continent is home to aardvarks?
Africa
6046. Terrorism
The forcible seizure of an aircraft or ship while the vehicle is in transit is called ...
hijacking
6047. Land Forms
What compound word may refer to any of these land areas? swamp, peatland, slough, marsh, muskeg, bog, fen, pothole, mire
wetland (everglade, quagmire, swampland)
6048. Explorations
Name the largest river basin explored by Jacques Cartier.
St. Lawrence
6049. Errors
Name the grammatical error in this line. There isn't but one volcano on the mainland that has caused damage.
double negative
6050. Meetings
In 1995, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base is in what state?
Ohio
6051. Folklore
This suggests the folklore in what part of the United Kingdom? Every lake has its kelpie, often seen by the shepherd sitting upon the brow of a rock, dashing along the surface of the deep, or browsing upon the pasture on its verge.
Scotland
6052. Breaking Up is Hard to Do
The breakup of what country led to fighting among Serbs, Bosnian Muslims, and Croats?
Yugoslavia
6053. Presidential Orders
This note delivered to Henry Stimson concerned what decision? Sec War Reply to your 41011 Suggestions approved Release when ready but not sooner than August 2 HST
dropping the atomic bomb
6054. Negotiations
With what South American country did the U.S. first attempt to negotiate a treaty under which the Panama Canal would be built?
Colombia
6055. Famous Buildings
These are what kind of structures? Winchester, Pisa, Notre Dame, Canterbury, St. Paul's, Chartres
cathedrals
6056. Extinct Creatures
Identify the two massive creatures of the Pleistocene epoch that resembled modern elephants.
mammoth, mastodon
6057. Cliches
What expression that cites two months of the year means that adversity will be followed by good fortune?
April showers bring May flowers.
6058. Weapons
An atomic bomb named Fat Man was used on what city?
Nagasaki
6059. Wartime
The victorious nations in both World War I and World War II were known as the ...
Allies
6060. Outdoor Perils
Abnormally low body temperature due to prolonged exposure to cold is called ...
hypothermia
6061. Painters
What American painter created these works? Canvassing for a Vote Verdict of the People County Election Stump Speaking
George Caleb Bingham
6062. Amendments
Which amendment gave women the right to vote?
19th
6063. Chlorophyll
Chlorophyll does not absorb photons in which part of the visible spectrum?
green
6064. Galaxies
A galaxy is a massive system consisting of stars, gas, and dust bound together by what?
gravity
6065. Legal Slang
What term that as a noun indicates one of the digits of the hand may be used as a verb meaning 'to inform on'?
finger
6066. Word Meaning
In contrast to the denotation of a word, what is the term for the ideas or qualities implied by that word?
connotation
6067. Stream Water
A stretch of ripples flowing rapidly over a sandbar or rocky shoal is called a ...
riffle
6068. Propaganda Techniques
When a speaker insists an audience make one of two choices, he might say, 'You are either with us or against us.' Another way of expressing that thought is to say, 'You are either part of the solution or' what?
part of the problem
6069. Allusions
This sentence alludes to an event in the life of what one-time European leader? The last game of the tournament proved to be the team's Waterloo.
Napoleon (Napoleon Bonaparte)
6070. Carbonation
Carbonation involves the charging of a liquid with what gas?
carbon dioxide
6071. Lever Problems
Will weighs 90 Ibs and Wilma weighs 60 lbs. Both are balanced on a seesaw. Given that Will is 10 feet away from Wilma, how far must Wilma be from the seesaw's fulcrum?
6 feet
6072. Elections
The person who has not been prominently in the public eye as a candidate but is brought forward as a compromise candidate when a nomination convention reaches a deadlock is called a what?
dark horse
6073. Nautical Poetry
This is from what poem by Oliver Wendell Holmes? Oh better that her shattered hulk Should sink beneath the wave; Her thunders shook the mighty deep, And there should be her grave.
Old lronsides
6074. Monuments
In what city can you see Gustave Eiffel's greatest engineering achievement?
Paris
6075. Ships
These were what kind of ships? Amoco Cadiz Exxon Valdez Torrey Canyon
supertankers (oil tankers)
6076. Military Leaders
What young American military commander who led an unsuccessful attack upon Fort Duquesne later returned for a second, successful assault on that garrison?
George Washington
6077. Wordplay
What reduplicated word indicates a line with multiple sharp turns in alternating directions?
zigzag
6078. 2
In what country is the Kathmandu Valley World Heritage Site located?
Nepal
6079. Antlers
Antlers are part of which body system?
skeletal system
6080. Magellan's Voyage
In St. Julian Bay in South America, Magellan's men reported seeing camels without humps. It is most likely that these were what kind of animals?
llamas
6081. American Politicians
Because he was short of stature but extraordinarily powerful in politics, what was the nickname of the 19th-century senator, Stephen Douglas?
Little Giant
6082. Presidential Prerogatives
The Congress has passed a law making it illegal to desecrate photographic reproductions of George Washington. What power is held by the president to reject this law?
veto
6083. Expulsions
Concurrence by what fraction of the Senate is necessary for its members to expel a member?
2/3
6084. Electricity
Which type of electrical current powers most household appliances?
alternating current (AC)
6085. South Carolina History
In 1776, American forces at Fort Moultrie successfully defended what major South Carolina port city against a British naval attack?
Charleston
6086. Sports Figures
With what sport was Shoeless Joe Jackson associated?
baseball
6087. Algebraic Fraction Addition
What is the sum of 3/y and 4/x?
(4y + 3x)/xy
6088. Photographic Problems
In photography, name the glow from a subject's eyes caused by light from the flash reflecting off the blood vessels behind the retina.
red eye
6089. Disease Transmission
What is the term for any agent, whether a person, animal, or microorganism, that transmits an infectious pathogen to another living organism?
vector
6090. Drama
What theatrical work by Ben Jonson concerns a person who attempted to transmute base metals into gold and discover the elixir of longevity?
The Alchemist
6091.
Name the two easternmost Canadian provinces with northern borders that are essentially straight lines.
Saskatchewan, Manitoba
6092. Geology
Ground motion, ground displacements, landslides, and tsunamis may be caused by what geologic phenomena?
earthquakes (meteorite impacts, volcanic eruptions)
6093. Ocean Currents
What is the opposite of a flood current?
ebb current (ebb tide)
6094. Regional Plants
Name any two of the four states in which the Joshua tree is native.
Arizona, California, Utah, Nevada
6095. Slogan Spoofs
This is a parody of what four-word slogan from the 1770s? Taxation WITH representation isn't so hot, either.
No taxation without representation.
6096. Nutrition
Indigestible plant matter consisting mainly of polysaccharides such as cellulose that stimulates intestinal peristalsis is called ...
roughage (fiber, bulk)
6097. Atomic Nuclei
51 protons are in the nucleus of an atom. What is the atomic number of this element?
51
6098. Metal Etymology
What lustrous metallic rare earth element is named after the Roman goddess of agriculture whose name is also that of the largest asteroid?
cerium
6099. Circulatory System
What structures in veins restrict blood from flowing in the wrong direction?
valves
6100. Evolution
Reptiles overcame the problem of reproduction on land by producing what new kind of eggs that freed them from having to live near bodies of water?
eggs with shells
6101. Language History
He insisted on Americanized spellings of words such as 'wagon' and 'center' instead of the British 'waggon' and 'centre.' Name this author of these works. The Blue-Backed Speller American Dictionary of the English Language
Noah Webster
6102. Perspective
With one-point perspective, vertical, horizontal, or orthogonal lines are drawn toward what point?
vanishing point
6103. Under the Curve
What is the area under the curve defined below? y = 3 times (x squared) from x = 2 tox =5
117
6104. Color
Tertiary colors result from mixing what kind of colors?
secondary colors
6105.
What is the least common multiple of 24 and 36?
72
6106. Statistics
An alpha error is the probability of rejecting a null hypothesis that is what?
true
6107.
A sector of a circle is the region bounded by two radii and what arc?
the intercepted arc
6108. Anatomy
Name the rings of cartilage and fibrous tissue located between the vertebrae that act as shock absorbers and contribute to the spine's flexibility.
disks
6109. Ocean Currents
These are important currents in what ocean? Kamchatka Current Mindanao Current Humboldt Current Kuroshio Current
Pacific
6110. Rhetoric
What is illustrated in this line? A rolling stone is worth two in the bush.
mixed metaphor
6111. Warships
What raftlike ship with a revolving turret amidships met the ironclad Virginia, formerly the Merrimack, in a five-hour battle in 1862?
Monitor
6112. Zoology
These are varieties of what kind of sea life? cow, thresher, bullhead, tiger, basking
sharks
6113. 5
With a telescope or binoculars, the width in feet of the area visible from 1,000 yards away is the F.O.V. which stands for what?
field of view
6114. Archipelagoes
The greatest numbers of archipelagic islands are in the central to southern parts of what ocean?
Pacific Ocean
6115. Story Books
Charles Perrault wrote 'Histories or Stories of Past Times,' which included stories about the Sleeping Beauty, Puss in Boots, and Bluebeard. This work is better known by its subtitle. What is that subtitle?
Tales of Mother Goose
6116. Blood
What substance in red blood cells forms a reversible bond with oxygen molecules?
hemoglobin
6117. Mountains
What mountain range west of the central Appalachians is mainly in West Virginia and western Pennsylvania?
Alleghenies
6118. Quotes
What novel ends with this? And to the question asked by Ecclesiastes 3,000 years ago - 'That which is far off and exceeding deep, who can find it out?' - two men alone of all now living have the right to give an answer - Captain Nemo and myself.
20,000 Leagues Under the Sea
6119. Fictional Clericals
James Bond's boss, M, has a secretary named ...
Miss Moneypenny
6120. Sculpture
Statuettes are small sculptural representations of humans or animals. What is another name for such sculptures?
figurines
6121. Underhanded Attempts
During the Revolutionary War, John Andre was part of a conspiracy to surrender what fort to the British?
West Point
6122. Poetry
The repetition of certain lines in throughout a poem is called a what?
refrain
6123. Asian Nations
What Asian country lies between the Arabian Sea and the Bay of Bengal?
India (or Sri Lanka)
6124. Substance Abuse
Crack is a blend of water, baking powder, and what drug?
cocaine
6125. British Mysteries
What character says this in a mystery? 'Come, Watson, come!' he cried. 'The game is afoot. Not a word! Into your clothes and come!' Sherlock
Holmes
6126. Legends
A tale of doubtful authenticity involving incidents of the recent past that spreads quickly and is uncritically believed to be true is known as what kind of legend?
urban legend
6127. Imperialism
A permanent settlement on the peninsula of Macao was secured in 1557 by bribery and the payment of rent. What European country established this settlement?
Portugal
6128. Angles of Elevation
The angle of elevation of a point on a cliff is 44 degrees. What is the angle of depression from that point?
44 degrees
6129. State Histories
What two U.S. states were admitted in 1912?
Arizona, New Mexico
6130. Anatomical Curves
What portion of the anatomy consists of these divisions? cervical curve thoracic curve lumbar curve pelvic curve
spine
6131. Famous Tracks
In what state is the Daytona International Speedway?
Florida
6132. British History
It was an age of adventure, exploration, brilliant literature and drama. Who was the British queen at this time?
Elizabeth |
6133. Nonfiction
Complete the title of this account by Henry Morton Stanley. How I Found ...
Livingstone
6134. Song Parodies
These lyrics to one of Mad Magazine's 'Top Bomb Hits' parody lyrics from what Broadway song? Oh, that frightening feeling As the glow spreads over the land. That exposed-to-lightning feeling When those Geiger counters click to beat the band.
On the Street Where You Live
6135. Astronomical Events
The closest one ever observed was in 1604 and it was visible to the naked eye. In 2009, astronomers reported seeing two of them some 18 billion light years away. Name these humongous astronomical explosions.
supernovae
6136. Astronomy
What planet has these characteristics? -orbital inclination of 25 degrees -surface area about 1/4 of the Earth -sidereal period of 687 days -2 satellites
Mars
6137. Voting
The process of voting for candidates of more than one party for different positions is called ...
split-ticket voting
6138. Anatomy
The colon is the lower section of what organ?
large intestine
6139. Seas
The North, Irish, and Baltic seas lie above part of the continental shelf of what continent?
Europe
6140. World War Il Weapons
Which of the missiles developed and deployed by the Germans at Peenemunde traveled faster than Mach 1?
V-2
6141. Myths
In Scandinavian myths, who is Freya's brother?
Frey
6142. Ship Lore
The ceremonial dedication of a ship when it is first launched, traditionally done by breaking a bottle of champagne over its bow. Name this ceremony.
christening
6143. Inventor Quotes
Who wrote this? Near the building yard, I often loitered unknown near groups of strangers and heard the loud laugh at my expense, the dry jest, and endless repetition of 'the Fulton Folly.'
Robert Fulton
6144. Reels
The two types of spinning reels are the open-faced and what other?
spincast (closed face)
6145. Executive Restrictions
If a U.S. president serves more than two years of another president's term as a result of succession, how many times may he run for that office?
one
6146. Ratio
Four partners made initial investments in the ratio of 5 to 9 to 11 to 15. If their business venture made a profit of $8920, what should be the largest investor's share of those profits?
$3345
6147. Amendments
What, according to the Second Amendment, is necessary to the security of a free state?
a militia
6148. Literary Forms
How is practically all literature classified that is not written in a regular meter like poetry?
prose
6149. Anagrams
'Animosity' is an anagram for 'is no' what?
amity
6150. Writing
What system of writing was used initially by the Sumerians and Akkadians?
cuneiform
6151. Sensation Anatomy
The tube that carries sound from the outer ear to the eardrum is called the auditory ...
canal
6152. Political Views
Senator Arthur Vandenberg of Michigan was a staunch isolationist until 1941. What happened in December of that year to change his mind?
the attack on Pearl Harbor
6153. Great Circles
The imaginary lines running from pole to pole around the Earth are called ...
meridians
6154. Accounting
What adjective describes the year by which accounts are reckoned and books balanced?
fiscal
6155. Bird Abbreviations
The abbreviation for the electromagnetic unit is identical to what Australian flightless bird?
emu
6156. Legal Procedures
An American citizen arrested and sent directly to prison without a trial would be deprived of what process?
due process
6157. Discoveries
In 1911, Hiram Bingham discovered the lost city of Machu Picchu in what mountain range?
Andes
6158. Famed Mosques
Today, the Umayyad Mosque in Damascus is the fourth holiest site of Islam after Mecca, Medina, and what shrine in Jerusalem?
Dome of the Rock
6159. Eulogies
These lines are from a eulogy about whom? -That man was the most famous New Zealander of our time. -His achievement on that day cannot be underestimated. -He went to a height and a place no man had gone before. -He went there with 1950s, not 21st-centurv. technology.
Edmund Hillary
6160. Science Fiction
In what book of short stories is there a robot named Robbie, a nearly perfect playmate for a young girl, and a robot named Nestor 10 who won't allow his employers to put themselves at risk in order to do their work?
|, Robot
6161. Medieval Membership
What organizations in medieval Europe were exclusive, created to preserve the privileges of their members, and to protect various trades and economic pursuits?
guilds
6162. Park Highlights
In what park could you see Cleopatra's Needle and the Metropolitan Museum of Art?
Central Park
6163. Ceremonial Buildings
What ceremonies are routinely held in the Baptistery of the Duomo and the Lateran Baptistry?
baptisms
6164. Water
Name the region of transition between the warmer surface waters and the cold bottom waters of a lake.
thermocline
6165. Court Members
A judge who is a member of the Supreme Court has what title?
justice
6166. Circulatory System
What artery brings blood from the coeliac artery to the liver?
hepatic
6167. Ballads
The central song for the musical, 'Show Boat,' is what ballad about the Father of Waters?
Ol' Man River
6168. Performing Arts
These are typical skills exhibited by what kind of performer? -touching one's head to one's own buttocks -placing both of one's legs behind one's neck -doing splits of more than 180 degrees -dislocating one's shoulders or hip joints -squeezing into a small box
contortionist
6169. State Sites
These are all in what state? Braddock Grave State Park Fort Necessity State Park Presque Isle State Park Independence Mall State Park Pennsbury Manor State Park
Pennsylvania
6170. Scandals
What scandal was brought to public attention in 1923 when Harry Sinclair, owner of Mammoth Oil, was convicted of contempt of court following the bribery and conspiracy convictions of Secretary of Interior Albert Fall?
Teapot Dome
6171. Conjunctions
Since 'FANBOYS' is a mnemonic device for remembering the coordinating conjunctions, for what does the 'F' stand?
for
6172. Answers
What question is associated with this answer? 'I,' said the fly. 'With my little eye I saw him die.'
Who saw him die?
6173. Light
What kind of light can be compared to a taut rope passing through a picket fence that can only vibrate in a direction parallel to the pickets?
polarized light
6174.
These men explored what ocean? Abel Tasman George Vancouver Vitus Bering Francis Drake
Pacific
6175. English Novels
In what work is this passage found? There were a king with a large jaw and a queen with a plain face on the throne of England; there were a king with a large jaw and a queen with a fair face on the throne of France.
A Tale of Two Cities
6176. Proverbs
What proverb about the integumentary system and good looks essentially means that you cannot judge a person's character by how he or she appears?
Beauty is only skin deep.
6177. Conquistadors
While searching for gold between 1539 and 1541, Hernando de Soto discovered what river?
Mississippi River
6178. Physiology
When an animal needs energy, it converts glycogen into what monosaccharide?
glucose
6179. Scientific Speculation
In the 1920s and 30s, A.I. Oparin and J.B.S. Haldane found that what kind of organic acids could be made by running a high-voltage electric current through a mixture of water, ammonia, methane, and hydrogen?
amino acids
6180. Speculation
What 18th-century Anglican clergyman and economist wrote that human population increases will inevitably lead to misery and poverty?
Thomas Malthus
6181. Travel Problems
Two boats start from the same place and head off in opposite directions. One goes 10 knots faster than the other. They were 272 nautical miles apart at the end of 8 hours, at which time the faster boat had traveled how many nautical miles?
176
6182. Ancient Nations
This is about what empire? With no more frontiers to conquer, the energy and idealism that drove the empire was shunted into a passion for spectacle, dissipation, and display.
Rome
6183. European Islands
Emerald Isle is another name for ...
Ireland
6184. Literary Themes
While the theme of a parable is its teaching, what is the theme of a fable called?
moral
6185. Swords
Who in 'The Hobbit' wields a sword called Glamdring, or 'Foe-hammer'?
Gandalf (or Turgon)
6186. Synthetics
What is the term for any substance added to a synthetic polymer to enhance or preserve its flexibility?
plasticizer
6187. Kitchen Vessels
What common cooking vessel produces superheated water?
pressure cooker
6188. Surface Area
What is the surface area of a cube three meters on edge?
54 square meters
6189. Sandburg
Carl Sandburg adapted several chapters from his 'Abraham Lincoln - the Prairie Years' into a book for children called 'Abe Lincoln Grows ...'
Up
6190. Ecological Tragedies
During the opening weeks of the 1991 war in Iraq, an enormous oil slick was intentionally released into what body of water?
Persian Gulf
6191. Fictional Characters
With what kind of watercraft is Marko Ramius associated in a novel by Tom Clancy?
submarine
6192. Craters
Name the crater at the tip of the Yucatan Peninsula believed by many scientists to be the site of a meteor or comet impact that caused the extermination of the dinosaurs.
Chickxulub
6193. Smugglers
What name is shared by the smugglers of illegal Mexican immigrants to the U.S. and wild North American canines?
coyotes
6194. Motion
An object moving in a straight line continues to move in a straight line unless acted upon by a ...
force
6195. Homophones
Spell the word meaning to make a prolonged and high-pitched cry that is a homophone for a huge marine mammal.
wail
6196. Forecasting
The NWS is a primary branch of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. For what does this abbreviation stand?
National Weather Service
6197. Density
Since copper is 8.9 times as dense as water, what is its specific gravity?
8.9
6198. National Parks
What site that later became a national park was discovered in 1901 when massive clouds of bats were observed emanating from it at twilight to forage for food?
Carlsbad Caverns
6199. Statistical Distributions
What kind of statistical distribution has two modes?
bimodal distribution
6200. Fictional Boys
Name the bright, nearsighted, overweight, asthmatic British schoolboy who is stranded on an island with his classmates and no adults in a novel by William Golding.
Piggy
6201. Routes
What mountain pass between Afghanistan and Pakistan was an invasion route for Alexander the Great and Tamerlane?
Khyber Pass
6202. Technology
Name the kind of device device that controls the flow of a liquid or gas through a pipe or that permits liquids or gases to flow through a pipe in only one direction.
valve
6203. Proverbs
What proverb about the fluid secreted from mammary glands means that it is useless to bemoan something that has already taken place?
Don't cry over spilled milk.
6204. Angles
How many degrees are in the sum of two angles which are explementary or conjugate?
360 degrees
6205. Reasoning
What is the missing premise in this argument? All metals contract when cooled and expand when heated. Therefore, aluminum will expand when heated.
Aluminum is a metal.
6206. Scientific Leaders
Who was appointed director of the Atomic Research Laboratory at Los Alamos, New Mexico in 1943?
J. Robert Oppenheimer
6207. Parks
Much of what three-million acre U.S. national park consists of fiords and bays?
Glacier Bay
6208. Inequalities
Solve this inequality for x. 3(x+1) is greater than or equal to 9
x is greater than or equal to 2
6209. Ancient Buildings
Name the ancient stone building first built by Ishmael and Abraham and incorporated in the center of the Great Mosque at Mecca.
Kaaba
6210. Artistic Processes
The coating of sculptures or architectural ornaments with gold leaf is called ...
gilding
6211. Weather Prediction
Doppler radar detection of mesocyclones is used to predict what kind of potentially devastating meteorological event?
tornado
6212. Transportation
These are special terms linked with what major form of transportation? paddle highball red ball telltale car knocker gandy dancer
railroad
6213. Reformers
What was the nationality of Martin Luther, the leader of the Reformation in the 16th century?
German
6214. Shared Awards
The Nobel Peace Prize was shared in 1993 by Nelson Mandela and what South African president?
F.W. de Klerk
6215. Space Travel Experiments
Name the large mechanical devices into which aspiring astronauts are sometimes placed and spun around to simulate intense gravitational forces.
centrifuges
6216. Deformities
What deformity especially prevalent among jockeys involves an outward curvature of both the femur and tibia?
bowleg (bandy leg, genu varum)
6217. Marine Life
What is the common name for a marine creature described as a cnidarian with a bell-shaped body?
jellyfish
6218. Government
What kind of document, sometimes involving tens, hundreds, thousands, or even millions of signatures, have been used to qualify candidates for public office and to qualify initiative proposals to be placed on ballots?
petitions
6219. Propaganda
What propaganda technique effectively used by Adolf Hitler was alluded to in 'Nineteen-Eighty Four' in these words? To tell deliberate lies while genuinely believing in them, to forget any fact that has become inconvenient, and then when it becomes necessary again, to draw it back from oblivion for just so long as it is needed.
big lie
6220. Verbal Reasoning
What type of test item is shown below? Bee is to honey as cook is to soup.
analogy
6221. Cubes
How long is each side of a cube with a volume of 512 cubic feet?
8 feet
6222. Devices in Physical Science
Usually employing a reaction between hydrogen and an oxident, name the electrochemical cell that converts chemical energy directly into electrical energy.
fuel cell
6223. Literature
What is the term for the emotional aura which establishes the reader's expectations and attitudes or the prevailing tone or mood of a literary work?
atmosphere
6224. Excerpts
This is from what novel? Deep in the forest a call was sounding, and as often as he heard this call, mysteriously thrilling and luring, he felt compelled to turn his back upon the fire and the beaten earth around it, and to plunge into the forest, and on and on, he knew not where or why.
The Call of the Wild
6225. Aviators
The second-most famous flier in 1928 after Charles Lindbergh was what Kansas-born woman?
Amelia Earhart
6226. Territories
When President McKinley said that the U.S. needed it 'just as much and a good deal more than we did California,' he was working for the annexation of what territory?
Hawaii
6227. Flags
What is the sum of the stars on the first U.S. flag and the number of stars on the flag when Dwight Eisenhower was elected president?
61
6228. History of South Africa
The Afrikaners were mainly known by what other name prior to 1820?
Boers
6229. Folk Dances
The Siciliano, a folk dance in which the partners are joined by a handkerchief, originated on what island in the Mediterranean?
Sicily
6230. Links between Generations
A feature that can be passed on from one generation to the next is what kind of characteristic?
inherited (genetic, congenital)
6231. Austrian History
In 1938, Adolf Hitler personally entered Vienna and declared Austria a part of what Reich?
Third Reich
6232. Literature
Prose literature is divided into two major categories. Which is appropriate for expository writing?
nonfiction
6233. Government Agencies
What is the abbreviation for the federal agency in the United States that is the equivalent of the Israeli Mossad?
CLA.
6234. Knowledge Galore
What adjective means 'having unlimited, total knowledge of everything'?
omniscient
6235.
In contrast to hallucinations, what kind of optical illusions produced by light refraction can be photographed?
mirages
6236. Hills
What is the term for smaller hills lying at the base of large mountains?
foothills
6237. Carbon
Another name for activated carbon is activated what?
activated charcoal
6238. A Wild Child
Name the feral child in Rudyard Kipling's 'The Jungle Book.'
Mowgli
6239. Legendary Ballads
This verse from a ballad is about what character in the Robin Hood legends? Tho he was called Little, his limbs they were large, And his stature was seven foot high; Wherever he came, they quaked at his name, For soon he would make them to fly.
Little John
6240. Musicians
What musical instrument is played by a flautist?
flute
6241. Glaciers
Where in a valley glacier does the ice move slowest?
along the edges
6242. Documents
This is from what document in U.S. history? The said States hereby severally enter into a firm league of friendship with each other, for their common defense, the security of their liberties, and their mutual and general welfare, binding themselves to assist each other, against all force offered to, or attacks made upon them, or any of them.
Articles of Confederation
6243. Mediterranean Islands
Identify the large Mediterranean island south of Turkey, west of Syria, northwest of Israel and Lebanon, and north of the Sinai Peninsula.
Cyprus
6244. Medical Procedures
What kind of evaluation is a physician performing when she asks you questions and orders X-rays or different kinds of medical tests before determining a treatment?
diagnosis
6245. French History
This is about what structure? Built around 1370 as part of the defenses of Paris, it was converted into a prison in the 17th century and housed mainly political prisoners. Its storming and demolition in 1789 by a large crowd is the symbol for the beginning of the French Revolution.
Bastille (Bastille Saint-Antoine)
6246. Air
Air suitable for the survival of terrestrial plants and animals is available only in which layer of the atmosphere?
troposphere
6247. Vocal Music
What is the lowest female singing voice?
contralto
6248. Animal Anatomy
What type of skeletons do insects, snails, spiders, and starfish have?
exoskeletons
6249. Elements
What actinide was named after the seventh planet from the Sun?
uranium
6250. Parodies
This ditty by Ogden Nash is a parody of another work by what U.S. poet? I think that I shall never see A billboard lovely as a tree. Perhaps unless the billboards fall, I'll never see a tree at all.
Joyce Kilmer
6251. Mammals
The forelimbs of four-legged mammals are homologous to what structures on seals?
fins (or flippers)
6252. Inclined Planes
An angle of how many degrees to the horizontal is formed by an inclined plane that is maximally tipped?
90 degrees
6253.
Reminiscent of the study of light, a distribution of entities or properties arrayed in order of increasing or decreasing magnitude is a ...
spectrum
6254. Limestone
Coquina is a soft and porous form of limestone composed of fragments of coral and what else?
shells
6255. Days of the Week
Which day of the week is named for a Norse goddess?
Friday (from Freya)
6256. Symptoms
These are indications of what injury? The victim may be in severe pain and there is swelling and bruising around a deformity at a joint. Movement at the joint is difficult because the bones are displaced.
dislocation
6257. Heat Transfer
Name the primary means by which heat is transferred from Earth's core to its crust.
convection
6258. Clever Anagrams
The phrase 'a decimal point' is an anagram for the other phrase, 'I'm a dot in' what?
place
6259. Figurative Language
What is an onomatopoeia for the sneeze sound?
achoo (achu, atisshoo, etc.)
6260. Government Agencies
What federal agency grants the official approval for a pharmaceutical manufacturer to market a new prescription drug?
FDA (Food and Drug Administration)
6261. Inventors
Who invented these? -harmonic multiple telegraph -telephonic telegraphic receiver -magneto-electric telephone
Alexander Graham Bell
6262. Burns
Superficial blisters filled with clear fluid are a symptom of at least what degree of a burn injury?
second degree burn
6263. Industrial Revolution
By the end of the 18th century, Newcomen engines were serving most of the larger collieries in Great Britain. What is a colliery?
coal mine
6264. Ancient Geology
Antarctica, Australia, India, Africa, and South America were connected to one another until the late Jurassic Period, when what phenomenon began to rift them apart?
continental drift
6265. European Monarchies
The surname, Plantagenet, is linked with what country?
England (Great Britain)
6266. 4
Hitler was sentenced to five years in prison when the Nazi attempt to seize control of the Bavarian government in 1923 collapsed. Name this failed coup.
Beer Hall (Munich) Putsch
6267.
Four of the fifteen highest waterfalls in the world are in what U.S. national park?
Yosemite
6268. Musicals
This is from the introduction in what musical? I shall impersonate a man. Come, enter into my imagination, and see him: Bony, hollow faced, eyes that burn with the fire of inner vision. He conceives the strangest project ever imagined - to become a knight errant And sally forth into the world, righting all wrongs!
Man of La Mancha
6269. Impacts
The impact of a very fast, relatively small mass into a larger body such as a planet or moon produces a depression called a what?
crater
6270. Musical Instruments
What instrument is used for taps or reveille?
bugle
6271. Solids
Regular tetragons form the faces of what regular polyhedron?
cube (hexahedron)
6272. Discoveries
When John Cabot discovered Newfoundland in 1497, he also discovered one of the world's great fishing areas called the ...
Grand Banks
6273. Surgery
What term that rhymes with 'club' means to vigorously wash the hands, fingernails, and arms prior to performing surgery?
scrub
6274. Secretions
Secretions from the mantles of certain bivalve mollusks produce what organic gemstone?
pear!
6275. Congress
Who has the constitutional power to call special sessions of Congress?
the president
6276. Flight
What is the name for any surface that provides lift?
wing (airfoil)
6277. Maritime Pillaging
The same activity that, in peacetime, was considered piracy became what perfectly legal naval strategy during wartime?
privateering
6278. Taxonomy
The cells of creatures in which taxonomic kingdom lack a cell wall?
Animalia (animals)
6279. Celebrations
On the night of May 1, 2011, thousands of people gathered at the Ground Zero site of the 9/11 attacks in New York to celebrate the news that who had been killed?
Osama bin Laden
6280. 2
What is the common term for this phenomenon? Rapid vaporization which disturbs a liquid and which occurs when the vapor pressure of the liquid equals the pressure on its surface.
boiling
6281. U
During what decade was the U.S. draft abolished and women integrated into the regular branches of the armed services?
1970s
6282. Literary Ethnicity
The central characters in these works share what ethnic background? The Horsecatcher Sing Down the Moon Only Earth and Sky Last Forever When the Legends Die
Indian (Native American)
6283. Russian Rulers
What name completes this series? Peter the Great, Catherine I, Peter III, Catherine the Great, Paul, Alexander I, Nicholas I, Alexander II, Alexander II], ...
Nicholas II
6284. Bishops
What is the title of the Bishop of Rome as Supreme Pontiff of the Roman Catholic Church?
pope
6285. Bacteria
The three shapes of bacteria are spiral, round, and ...
rod-shaped
6286. Old West
Identify this Old West character. History isn't sure whether she was a frustrated feminist or just a foul-mouthed transvestite shrew. In any case, she was ahead of her time. She lived in Deadwood, South Dakota and may have been an Indian scout and Pony Express rider.
Calamity Jane
6287. Mythical Garb
Given to her by her father, Ares, what did Hippolyta wear to symbolize her authority as queen of the Amazons?
girdle (belt, sash)
6288. Lakes
The waters of over 25 rivers drain into it but only one drains out. Name this enormous South American lake.
Titicaca
6289. Weight
Something that weighs 128 kilograms on Earth's surface would weigh how much if it were transported to 3 Earth radii above the Earth?
8 kilograms
6290.
What is the collective name for such publications as these? Good Housekeeping Sports Illustrated Popular Mechanics Entertainment Weekly
periodicals
6291. Scientific Measurements
What unit of pressure equals a barometric reading of 760 millimeters of mercury at sea level?
1 atmosphere
6292. Lenses
What is the antonym of concave?
convex
6293.
What phrase is used for a patient's respiration, pulse rate, blood pressure, and body temperature?
vital signs
6294. Explorers
Identify the first Englishman to see the Pacific Ocean.
Sir Francis Drake
6295. Mineral Properties
When exposed to invisible ultraviolet light, some minerals emit visible light of various colors, a phenomenon called ...
fluorescence
6296. Weapon Mechanics
A medieval catapult is a very large example of what simple machine?
lever
6297. Injuries
Reminiscent of a North American ringed-tailed mammal, name the condition of having two black eyes.
raccoon eyes
6298. Acids
All acids turn litmus paper what color?
red (pink)
6299. Nursery Tales
One of the tales in Charles Perrault's original collection of tales was 'Le Petit Chaperon rouge.' Translate this.
Little Red Riding Hood
6300. Fictional Characters
Main characters in Alan Moore's 'The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen' include Allan Quatermain, the Invisible Man, Dr. Jekyll, and what sea captain?
Captain Nemo
6301. Fields of Science
The discipline that studies the factors determining the causes, frequencies, and distributions of diseases in populations is ...
epidemiology
6302. Settings
What continent is the setting for Ernest Hemingway's story, 'The Snows of Kilimanjaro'?
Africa
6303. Immigration
The formal removal of aliens from the U.S. because they have violated immigration laws is called ...
deportation
6304. Winds
At the tropopause, almost the entire flow of air is west-to-east. This westerly flow is not uniform and contains narrow cores of high-velocity winds called what?
jet streams
6305. Political Pressure
Because the efforts are traditionally conducted in rooms and hallways just off the Senate and House chambers, the practice of attempting to persuade members of Congress to support or oppose pieces of legislation is called ...
lobbying
6306. Slavery
The exchange of molasses for rum for slaves was what kind of trade?
triangular trade
6307. Plant Physiology
What structures on a plant are used to procure inorganic nutrients such as minerals and water?
roots
6308. The Digestive System
It is about three centimeters across and seven meters long. Identify this organ where most digestion takes place.
small intestine
6309. Seas
What sea is between the islands of Sumatra, Borneo, Celebes, and Java?
Java Sea
6310. Telescopes
The two principal types of optical telescopes are reflecting and ...
refracting
6311. Diameters
In a circle, one radius equals 3n - 10 feet. Another radius equals n + 2 feet. In feet, what is the length of the diameter?
16 feet
6312. Tornadoes
Although a precise location cannot be defined, the region of the U.S. called Tornado Alley is definitely between what two American mountain ranges?
Rockies, Appalachians
6313. Royal Victories
The English troops who defeated the French at Agincourt in 1415 were led by what king?
Henry V
6314. Good Fences
3437 miles is the length of the world's longest continuous fence. It is in what country?
Australia (Dingo Fence)
6315. Just Desserts
You have just consumed what kind of ethnic meal if your dessert includes the message, 'Ignore previous cookie'?
Chinese food
6316. Optics
What is the term for any optical device that transmits and refracts light, converging or diverging the beam?
lens
6317. Tragic Letters
Who wrote this in 1994? My Fellow Americans: I have been told I am one of the millions of Americans to be afflicted with Alzheimer's disease. Upon learning this news, Nancy and I had to decide whether as private citizens we would keep this a private matter.
Ronald Reagan
6318. South America
Chile is one of the two South American countries that does not share a border with Brazil. Name the other.
Ecuador
6319. British Law
Under British law during the Napoleonic Wars and the War of 1812, any subject of the Crown could be drafted into the Royal Navy in an emergency. Name this practice.
impressment
6320. Algebraic Addition
Add these two expressions. 2(x squared) - 3x + 1 5(x squared) + 7x - 4
7(x squared) + 4x - 3
6321. Heat
One pound of water needs one Btu to raise its temperature one degree C. Its specific heat is ...
one
6322. Sad Tales
This dialogue is from what story by Nathaniel Hawthorne? 'Georgiana,' said he, 'has it never occurred to you that the mark upon your cheek might be removed?' 'No, indeed,' said she, smiling; but perceiving the seriousness of his manner. 'To tell you the truth it has been so often called a charm that I was simple enough to imagine it so.'
The Birthmark
6323. British Commanders
The final command held by Charles Cornwallis in America was at a battlefield near what village in southeast Virginia?
Yorktown
6324. Frontier Economics
The search for what animal led the mountain men to the farthest reaches of the West?
beaver
6325. Symptoms
People whose eyes water, noses run, and ears itch when they are exposed to substances such as pollen, animal dander, or dust have what kind of common immune disorder?
allergy
6326. Representatives
People who represent actors, writers, or athletes in salary and contract negotiations share what job title?
agents
6327. Anatomy
Name the ball of capillary-like blood vessels in kidneys where urine production begins.
glomerulus
6328. Emblems
What emblem that is the official coat of arms of the U.S. presidency is used to mark correspondence from the U.S. president to Congress?
Seal of the President of the United States
6329. Southern Capitals
Name the southernmost national capital in the world.
Wellington
6330. Natural Formations
A rusticle on a sunken ship resembles what kind of formation in a cave?
stalactite
6331. Divisors
Exclude the numbers | and 24 and then calculate the sum of the positive integer divisors of 24.
35
6332. Factoring in Algebra
Factor 25p squared - 36q squared.
(5p-6q)(5p + 6q)
6333.
Leonardo da Vinci's aerial screw was a predecessor of what modern vehicle?
helicopter
6334. Primary Elections
What hyphenated phrase describes those American presidential primaries in which every state delegate to the national convention is awarded to the single candidate with the most votes?
winner-take-all
6335. Dimensions
Usually we consider only the three dimensions of length, width, and depth. But Albert Einstein noted that there is what fourth dimension?
time
6336. Insurrections
In 1988, the intifada began in the Gaza Strip and the West Bank as revolt against the military occupation by what country's forces?
Israel
6337. Acids
Aqua regia consists of one part nitric acid and three parts of what other acid?
hydrochloric acid
6338. Planets
The surface temperature of what planet varies from about -89 to 58 degrees Celsius?
Earth
6339. Experiments
Louis Pasteur put 24 sheep into one pen and 24 more into another. He vaccinated one group. Otherwise all the sheep were treated the same. Then he introduced anthrax to both groups, and only the vaccinated sheep survived. What was the hypothesis?
Vaccination prevents anthrax.
6340. New World Equines
What conquistador introduced horses to Peru?
Francisco Pizarro
6341. Mining
While a vein is a long, branching deposit of a mineral, a wide, flat deposit of a mineral is called a ...
bed
6342. Vonnegut
The title of what work by Kurt Vonnegut is badly restated below? The Destructive Singing Sea Nymphs of One of the Children of Uranus and Gaea
The Sirens of Titan
6343. Acting
The curtain is about to go up, and suddenly one of the actors is showing extreme apprehension and anxiety at the prospect of having to perform before an audience. Identify this psychological condition.
stage fright
6344. Pronouns
What two types of pronouns are in this statement? I turned down a date once because I was looking for someone a little closer to the top of the food chain.
personal, indefinite
6345. Ichthyology
Fish that spend most of their lives feeding in the open ocean but migrate to spawn in fresh water are described by what adjective?
anadromous
6346. Probability
The probability of getting a 6 when a pair of dice is thrown is 5/36. If you throw the dice 720 times, you would expect a sum of 6 to come up how many times?
100
6347. Poetry
Complete this line by Longfellow. I shot an arrow into the air ...
It fell to earth | knew not where
6348. Parks
These national parks are in what mountain range? Kings Canyon, Sequoia, Yosemite
Sierra Nevada
6349. Expressions
To say one thing and mean another is to speak with what kind of sense organ characteristic of scaly, legless reptiles?
forked tongue
6350. Mechanics
What branch of mechanics studies the balance of forces needed to keep a body in equilibrium?
statics
6351. U
What form of literature is illustrated by the 'Federalist Papers,' written in support of the U.S. Constitution?
essays (nonfiction)
6352. Scandalous Swims
A tidal basin swim is associated with Fanne Fox and what former member of the House of Representatives from Arkansas?
Wilbur Mills
6353. Textiles
The cotton we know as madras is named after a port city in what country?
India
6354. Invertebrates
What creature has these features? -most highly developed of the invertebrates -eyes are almost exact replicas of human eyes -body length of up to 65 feet -ten arms
giant squid
6355. Mythology and Chemistry
The name of the son of Creusa and Apollo is the same as that for an atom with a net electric charge. What is
it?
6356. Civil War Battles
The Battle of Pittsburgh Landing in Tennessee is better known as the Battle of ...
Shiloh
6357. Science Fiction
What creature does Jules Verne describe in these words? It swam crossways in the direction of the Nautilus with great speed, watching us with its enormous staring green eyes. Its eight arms, fixed to its head, that have given the name of cephalopod to these animals, were twice as long as its body, and were twisted like the furies' hair.
squid (giant squid)
6358. Halogens
What halogen is most widely used to purify water in municipal water systems?
chlorine
6359. Engagements
In what battle did the Texans led by Sam Houston kill or capture Santa Anna's entire Mexican force of more than 1300 with only nine American deaths?
Battle of San Jacinto
6360. Participles
What is the past participle of 'arise'?
arisen
6361. Algae
Chlorella, a single-cell green algae multiplies rapidly, requiring only a small amount of minerals, water, carbon dioxide, and what else to reproduce?
sunlight (light)
6362. Body Heat Regulation
Since dogs have few sweat glands, how do they get rid of body heat?
panting
6363. Heroines
In 1425, at the age of 13, who claimed to have been told by St. Michael to rescue the Paris region from the English?
Joan of Arc
6364. Political Slang
Democrats who frequently take Republican political positions are known as what kind of canines?
blue dogs (blue dog democrats)
6365. Conflicts
Troops from what two countries fought against the U.N. forces during the Korean War?
North Korea, China
6366. Settlements
A settlement at what site in Michigan later to become known as 'the automobile capital of the world' was established in 1701 by Antoine de la Mothe Cadillac?
Detroit
6367. American Legends
Name the legendary steel-driving man of the Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad.
John Henry
6368. Arachnids
The bodies of arachnids are divided into two parts including the abdomen and the ...
cephalothorax
6369.
What American naval officer spent the spring and summer of 1813 constructing and equipping the fleet of ten vessels he would use to defeat the British and gain control of Lake Erie?
Oliver Perry
6370. Ranching
Name the fodder prepared by storing and fermenting green forage plants in a silo.
silage
6371. Influence in Government
Public opinion and lobbying have the least influence on which of the three branches of American government?
judicial branch
6372. Prisoners
Arizona senator, John McCain, spent five years as a prisoner of war in what country?
Vietnam (North Vietnam)
6373. Icky Flows
Excessive mucus secretion from the posterior nasal cavities accompanying an allergy or a cold is called postnasal ...
drip
6374. Freedoms
The right to present requests to the government without fear of reprisal is called freedom of ...
petition
6375. Reefs
What kind of coral reef forms around a volcanic seamount?
atoll
6376. Lakes
There are more than 1000 lakes in Connecticut. Most were created by what phenomenon?
glaciers (glaciation)
6377.
What kind of door, invented in 1888, is always open and always closed?
revolving door
6378. Energy
Heliostats are used in the process of converting what kind of energy into electricity?
solar energy
6379. Science History
The numerous dark lines in the spectrum of the Sun and other stars were named after the German physicist, Joseph von who?
Fraunhofer
6380. Superstitions
Spilling salt is supposed to bring bad luck. But they say you can keep the bad luck away if you do what with some of the spilled salt?
Throw some over your (left) shoulder.
6381. Residents
What is the term for anyone who is not a citizen of the country in which he or she lives?
alien
6382. Reform
What two words complete this pledge for the Loyal Temperance Union in 1883? I promise not to buy, sell, or give Alcoholic liquors while I live. From all tobacco I'll abstain And never take God's name ...
in vain
6383. Factoring
Completely factor 10 - 40(y squared).
10(1+2y)(1-2y)
6384. Movie Roles
In a movie, a supporting role with only a few lines of dialogue is known as what kind of part?
bit part
6385. Chemical Processes
The removal of dissolved or absorbed gases from liquids or solids is called ...
degassing
6386. Nicknames
What is the nickname of the man mentioned in this verse by William Cullen Bryant? Our band is few but true and tried, Our leader frank and bold; The British soldier trembles When Marion's name is told.
Swamp Fox
6387. Canadian Neighbors
Name either U.S. state that borders Manitoba.
Minnesota, North Dakota
6388. Greek Myths
While Selene was the goddess of the Moon, name her twin brother who was the Sun god.
Helios
6389. Square Root
What is the square root of zero?
zero
6390. Mechanics
Name the common device made from an elastic material that absorbs and releases energy by a change in its shape and that regains its original shape after being compressed or extended.
spring
6391. Root Words
What does the root word mean in credence, incredulous, and creed?
believe
6392. Invasions
This refers to what invasion? The CIA encouraged the exiles to think the landing would have support from American air forces. But Kennedy decided against direct American involvement, so the invasion was a ludicrous failure.
Bay of Pigs
6393. Acronyms
What is the acronym used for the following? Situation normal - all fouled up.
snafu
6394. Terrorism
In 1983, a truck carrying 2500 pounds of TNT was driven into a U.S. Marines headquarters. The blast killed 241 soldiers in what President Reagan called 'a vicious, cowardly, ruthless' attack in what country?
Lebanon
6395. Not So Salty Salt Water
Produced from monsoonal river runoff, Bay of Bengal water is a low-salinity water mass found in the upper hundred meters of the eastern part of what ocean?
Indian Ocean
6396. Weather Metaphors
What meteorological term completes this metaphor? a ---- ina teapot
tempest
6397. Religious Traditions
Traditions of what religion include Muharram, Mawlid al-Nabi, Ramadan, Eid al-Fitr, and Eid al-Adha?
Islam
6398. Poems
This is about what Gothic church in London? Let me take this other glove off As the vox humana swells, And the beauteous fields of Eden Bask beneath the Abbey bells. Here, where England's statesmen lie, Listen to a lady's cry.
Westminster Abbey
6399. Representatives
If someone were the minimum age to be a member of the U.S. House of Representatives when first elected and she just got reelected for her sixth consecutive term, how old is she now?
35
6400. Psychological Malapropisms
What word did the speaker intend in this line? I never forget anything, because I have a photogenic memory.
photographic
6401. Proverbs
What is the modern proverb that may have originally been stated in the 11th century this way? It is said that at the need the friend is known.
A friend in need is a friend indeed.
6402. No Veto
Veto-proof legislation has the support of at least 290 members of the House and how many members of the Senate?
67
6403. Mountain Vistas
What is the highest mountain visible from the Tacoma Narrows Bridge?
Mt. Rainier
6404. Numbers
What is the fourteenth ordinal number?
fourteenth
6405. Wartime Literature
What war is the setting of the book from which this excerpt was taken? At times he regarded the wounded soldiers in an envious way. He conceived persons with torn bodies to be particularly happy. He wished that he, too, had a red badge of courage.
Civil War
6406. Dialect
In a tongue-in-cheek 'Dictionary of Southernisms,' an 'ah' is an organ for seeing and 'arn' is ferrous metal. What is measured with a unit called an 'are'?
time
6407. Plot Parts
These are examples of what part of a plot? -the Titanic sinks -Harry Potter comes face to face with Voldemort -the Death Star is destroyed -Rocky wins the fight with Apollo Creede
climax
6408. Condensation
At sea level, steam condenses to form water at how many degrees Celsius?
100
6409. Weaponry
This is about what weapon introduced in the First World War? Its sweeping, rapid-fire spray of bullets made it so deadly that armies found any advance difficult and costly.
machine gun
6410. Prehistoric Creatures
Prehistoric reptiles such as dimetrodon and edaphosaurus are sailbacks because they had high bony spines on their backs covered with thin skin. This structure helped them to control what?
body temperature
6411. Curiosity
Curiosity plays a central role in the story of Bluebeard's wives and also what Greek mythical woman who couldn't keep from opening a box?
Pandora
6412. Authority Abuse
The unnecessary use of force by law enforcement, including shootings and beatings, is called police what?
brutality
6413. Pharaohs
Her reign began in 1503 B.C. and lasted 22 years. Name the only woman to rule Egypt as pharaoh.
Hatshepsut
6414. Quadrilaterals
The base of a rectangle is 12 inches and its diagonal is 13 inches. What is its area?
60 square inches
6415. Novels
In this novel, Claudia Kincaid decides to run away, wants to run to somewhere comfortable, beautiful, and elegant, and ends up at the New York Metropolitan Museum of Art. There she finds an angel statue that had been sold to the museum by whom?
Mrs. Basil E. Frankweiler
6416. Fish Anatomy
In fish, what is a synonymous phrase for 'caudal end'?
posterior end
6417. Agricultural Practices
A main purpose of no-till planting is to reduce what?
erosion
6418. Serious Symbols
What symbol reminiscent of pirates indicates a poisonous substance?
skull and crossbones
6419. Disasters
The horrific explosion of the SS Grandcamp in 1947 occurred in what U.S. state?
Texas
6420. Botany
What is described when a botanist uses these terms? spatulate ovate orbiculate cordate peltate
leaves (forms of blades)
6421. Anthropology
On the Yucatan, they built a sophisticated culture, developed a written language, a numerical system, and an accurate calendar. Who were these pre-Columbians?
Mayas (Mayans)
6422. Respiration
Many organisms can break down glucose anaerobically, which means without what?
oxygen (air)
6423. Explorers
In 1609, who led an expedition to America for the Dutch East India Company and laid claim to the area along the Hudson River as far north as present-day Albany?
Henry Hudson
6424. Color
Blue and green and red are chromatic colors. What is an achromatic color?
black (gray, white)
6425. Parks
What is the southernmost national park on the mainland of the contiguous forty-eight states?
Everglades
6426. Mixtures
If the correct mix for powdered lemonade is 1/4 cup for 2 quarts of water, how much mix should be used with 1 1/2 gallons of water?
3/4 cup
6427. Legends
When the babies Romulus and Remus were left to die, legend has it that they were saved and cared for by what creatures?
wolves
6428. Antecedents
What is the antecedent of the pronouns in this example? Having relocated his hump, Igor grabbed his shovel and headed for the swamp.
Igor
6429. Historical Enemies
Soldiers from what two religions were enemies during the Crusades?
Islam, Christian
6430. Poetry
In what poem is Blake on first and Flynn on third?
Casey at the Bat
6431. Renaissance Europe
These were city-states on what peninsula in the 15th and 16th centuries? Mantua, Urbino, Ferrara, Milan, Florence
Italian Peninsula
6432. Native Americans
The Five Civilized Tribes were forcibly removed from their lands in the southeastern U.S. to the West after passage of the Indian Removal Act. These tribes included the Chickasaw, Choctaw, Creek, Seminole, and what other?
Cherokee
6433. Dance Music
'The Blue Danube' by Johann Strauss is music for what kind of dance?
waltz
6434. Hazardous Substances
Medical studies have shown that what hazardous substance poses no health threat in the form of a stable dental amalgam?
mercury
6435. Slogans
This is the slogan of what self-governing U.S. territory in the Mariana Islands? Where America's day begins.
Guam
6436.
Which of a pair of plump twins created by Lewis Carroll said this? If it was so, it might be, and , if it were so, it would be, but as it isn't, it ain't. That's logic.
Tweedledee
6437. Military Leaders
Along with Alexander the Great, Julius Caesar, Scipio, and Pyrrhus of Epirus, what Carthaginian is considered one of the greatest generals of antiquity?
Hannibal
6438. Amphibians
The legs of amphibians evolved from what structures on fish?
fins
6439. Arthurian Legends
King Arthur's father, Uther, had what name reminiscent of a fabulous winged reptilian beast?
Pendragon
6440. Immigration
In 1892, New York's immigrant receiving station moved from Castle Garden to what island in New York Harbor?
Ellis Island
6441. New Words
What word in 'Jabberwocky' is a combination of flimsy and miserable?
mimsy
6442. Tides
The greatest tidal range on the planet occurs in a bay of what country?
Canada
6443. Retribution
What legal principle relating to the organ of vision indicates that a person who has injured another should be penalized to a similar degree?
an eye for an eye
6444. Algebraic Expressions
Using 'p' for the variable, express 5 times a number increased by 9.
5pt+9
6445. Equinoxes
In the Southern Hemisphere, during what month does the autumnal equinox occur?
March
6446.
A not-so-fair maiden weighs 280 pounds. The area of her ballet slippers in contact with the ground totals 40 square inches. In pounds per square inch, what is her total pressure on the ground?
7 |b. per sq. inch
6447. Lynchings
Booker T. Washington lived at a time when a lynch mob needed no more excuse to hang a black man than that he was 'uppity.' What Supreme Court nominee alluded to this concept in 1991 during testimony to the Senate Judiciary Committee?
Clarence Thomas
6448. Fish
During the heat of the day, fish will move into deeper, colder water. This is partly because warm water contains less of what element than cold water?
oxygen
6449. Metallurgy
A company receives 82% pure gold. By removing most of its impurities, 99.5% pure gold is produced. Identify this process.
refining (smelting)
6450. Storms On the Ocean
What category of storm over the ocean is stronger than a tropical depression but weaker than a hurricane?
tropical storm
6451. Solids
Chemically speaking, what is the name for a solid that separates out of solution during a chemical change?
precipitate
6452. Symbols
This is about what national symbol? While a replacement from Whitechapel was ordered, it was recast by John Pass and John Stow of Philadelphia, whose surnames are inscribed on it.
Liberty Bell
6453. Vestigial Structures
The human coccyx is a remnant of what anatomical structure present in other mammals?
tail
6454. Nuclear Energy
What kind of nuclear reaction is probably occurring at the center of Polaris and Antares?
fusion
6455. Wars
What country participated in both the Sino-French War and the Sino-Japanese War?
China
6456. Medieval Institutions
What is the name for a monastic community of monks or nuns supervised by an abbot or abbess?
abbey
6457. Energy
What type of energy is used by primary producers to convert carbon dioxide and water into carbohydrates?
light (solar, electromagnetic)
6458. Fossil Taxonomy
Trilobites belong to what phylum?
arthropod (Arthropoda)
6459. Prohibitions
In times of crisis, a local or national government may prohibit people from going out into the streets after a given hour. Such a prohibition is called a ...
curfew
6460. Homonyms
What term for a sneaker is also a slang name for a detective?
gumshoe
6461. Sentence Parts
These lines illustrate what kind of complements? -All the passengers were Norwegian. -His houseboat is spacious. -Those animals are gazelles. -Her house was cozy.
subject complements
6462. British Tradition
In Great Britain, what is the Union Jack?
a flag
6463. Island Acquisitions
The Aleutian Islands became U.S. territory as the result of a real estate deal with what country?
Russia
6464. Soldier Nicknames
Reminiscent of a soft mixture of flour and water, American infantrymen in World War I were called what?
doughboys
6465. Thanksgiving Doggerel
What term for the upper portion of the human leg is missing from this ditty? May your stuffing be tasty May your turkey be plump, May your potatoes and gravy have nary a lump. May your yams be delicious and your pies take the prize, And may Thanksgiving dinner stay off your ...
- = thighs
6466. Colorful Seas
What sea named after the portion of the visible spectrum between orange and green is off the eastern coast of Asia?
Yellow Sea
6467. A Dictator's Demise
In 2011, what North African dictator was killed shortly after he was found hiding in a highway culvert?
Muammar Qaddafi
6468. The Zodiac
'Aqr' is the abbreviation for what constellation?
Aquarius
6469. Canadian Capitals
What is the capital of the province bordered by Alberta, Manitoba, Montana, and North Dakota?
Regina
6470. Earth's Interior
The lower boundary of what zone in the Earth's interior is marked by the abrupt decrease in the velocity of earthquake waves as they enter the core?
mantle
6471. Elements in Literature
It doesn't necessarily have to be a person. It could be death, evil, an illness, or any challenge that prevents the main character from living 'happily ever after.' In any case, what is the term for the opponent to the protagonist?
antagonist
6472. Puns
Complete this anecdote with a pun of a name. Mark Twain at one time was arrested but got off scot-free as the judge was in a good mood. He decided to offer Samuel Langhorne ...
clemency
6473. Literary Techniques
What technique is illustrated in this line by Thomas Hood? O God! that bread should be so dear, And flesh and blood so cheap!
antithesis
6474. Disorders
Name the acute condition resulting when the body produces or absorbs more heat than it can dissipate.
hyperthermia (heat stroke, heat exhaustion)
6475. Healing Dihydrogen Oxide
A mineral spring supposed to have healing properties is called a ...
spa
6476. Piracy
Piracy flourished in the Caribbean largely thanks to pirate bases at Port Royal in Jamaica, Tortuga off Haiti, and Nassau in what island group?
Bahamas
6477.
Seamounts are most prevalent in which ocean?
Pacific
6478. City Nicknames
In what state are cities with these nicknames located? City of Witches Birthplace of Basketball The Whaling City The Birthplace of American Liberty Beantown
Massachusetts
6479. Pooch Recollections
Name the animal described here in Jack London's words. And not only did he learn by experience, but instincts long dead became alive again. The domesticated generations fell from him. In vague ways he remembered back to the youth of the breed, to the time the wild dogs ranged in packs through the primeval forest and killed their meat as they ran it down.
Buck
6480. Marine Biology
Through what organs do cephalopods such as octopuses, squids, and ammonites breathe?
gills
6481. Literary Etymology
What term is derived from the Greek words 'graphein' meaning to write and 'bios' meaning life?
biography
6482. Cranial Nerves
Which cranial nerve transmits visual information from the retinas to the brain?
optic nerve
6483. Visual Problems
What vision problem involves the perception of two images from a single object?
diplopia (double vision)
6484. Marine Mammals
Name the world's largest seals.
elephant seals
6485. Particles
What fundamental particles produced by nuclear reactions in stars are very hard to detect since they mostly pass completely through the Earth without interacting?
neutrinos
6486. Areas
The base of a rectangle is 25 yards and its perimeter is 150 yards. What is the area of this quadrilateral?
1250 square yards
6487. Emissions
What radioactive emission was discovered by Wilhelm Konrad Roentgen?
x-rays
6488. Numbers
The sum of the digits of a two-digit number is 12. The number named is 18 more than the number named when the digits are reversed. What is the number?
75
6489. Other Bases in Math
120 in base 7 equals what decimal numeral?
63
6490. Chemical Compounds
These are what kinds of compounds? citric oxalic lactic tartaric
acids
6491. Federal Agencies
What U.S. federal agency coordinated the responses to help those affected by Hurricane Andrew in 1992, Hurricane Katrina in 2005, the Buffalo snowstorm of 2006, the California wildfires of 2007, and the Moore, Oklahoma tornado in 2013?
FEMA (Federal Emergency Management Agency)
6492. Metals
The word element 'ferro' indicates ...
iron
6493. Occupational Diseases
Anthracosis is a lung disease associated with the mining of what fossil fuel?
coal
6494. Land Masses
During the ice ages, Beringia was a land bridge that was exposed between what two continents?
Asia, North America
6495. Sentence Transformation
Transform this sentence from first person singular to second person plural. I smell a rat.
You smell a rat.
6496. Weapons
What letter of the alphabet is associated with the first bomb mentioned in this account? In 1952, the U.S. tested another bomb, 250 times more powerful than the A-bomb dropped
on Hiroshima.
6497. Weight
The weight of the contents alone free of the weight of the container is called what weight?
net weight
6498. Propaganda
What propaganda technique is illustrated in this example? I'm Matt Holliday, and I found there's nothing, simply nothing, better than Saul Salmonella's Salmon Oil Capsules to put that extra whap in my swing.
testimonial
6499. Wipeouts
Geological evidence suggests that extinction of dinosaurs occurred when a city-sized meteorite impacted what peninsula?
Yucatan
6500. Algebraic Division
Divide -14wxy by 7wxyz.
-2/2
6501. Sayings About Cities
According to the proverb, what European city was not built in a day?
Rome
6502. Proverbs
Complete this proverb. Give a man enough rope and he will ...
hang himself
6503. Drugs
An excessive quantity of a drug which causes severe physiological reactions is an ...
overdose
6504. Advertising
What propaganda technique is used when a celebrity with a perfect complexion recommends some face cream that she claims to rely on?
testimonial
6505. Slopes
What is the product of the slopes of two perpendicular
lines?
6506. Cattle
Tough, rangy, with a horn spread up to eight feet, what type of cattle were particularly suited to survive in the open range of Texas in the 1870s?
longhorns
6507. Peninsulas
The Sinai Peninsula is part of what country?
Egypt
6508. The American Revolution
Matthew Johnson was an American colonist who supported British rule in America during the Revolution. His sentiments were with what political party?
Tory (Loyalist)
6509. Friction
When surfaces in contact move relative to each other, the friction between the two surfaces converts kinetic energy into what?
heat
6510. Energy
The five main types of renewable energy include hydro, biomass, geothermal, solar, and what else?
wind
6511. Work Problems
Frank can reload a case of shotgun shells in 3 hours. His daughter takes 2 hours to complete the same task. If both work together, how long would it take them to reload another case?
1 1/5 hrs (1 hr 12 min)
6512. Insect Etymology
What is the common name for the huge group of insects in the taxonomic order with a name derived from Greek words meaning 'sheath' and 'wing'?
beetles
6513. Economics
Modern economics texts say that what is a medium of exchange, a unit of account, and a store of value?
money
6514. Scary Stories
To whom does the first pronoun refer in this passage from a famous American story? His horror was still more increased on observing that the head, which should have rested on his shoulders, was carried before him on the pommel of his saddle!
Ichabod Crane
6515. The Brain
The brain is composed of how many hemispheres?
two
6516. Opened Passes
In 2006, the Nathu La Pass reopened after 44 years of being sealed during the Sino-Indian War. It connects India and what country?
China (People's Republic of China)
6517. Crazy Horse
To whom was Crazy Horse referring when he spoke these words? Then Long Hair came. They say we massacred him, but he would have done the same to us had we not defended ourselves and fought to the last.
George Custer
6518. Settings
What future state is the setting for Laura Ingalls Wilder's fifth 'Little House' book entitled 'By the Shores of Silver Lake'?
South Dakota
6519. Infinitives
What infinitive most often follows the verb 'seem' or 'seems'?
to be
6520. Ben's Advice
What is the last word in this advice by Franklin? He that lieth down with dogs shall rise up with the ...
fleas
6521. Biological Symmetry
Starfish have radial symmetry. What kind of symmetry is associated with these creatures? giraffe tuna centipede
bilateral
6522. Asian Philosophical Positions
What Indian spiritual leader said this in the 1930s? When a person claims to be non-violent, he is expected not to be angry with one who has injured him. He will not wish him harm. He will not swear at him. He will put up with all the injury to which he is subjected by the wrong-doer.
Mohandas Gandhi
6523. Perception
What kind of perception enables a person to perceive space and three-dimensional objects?
depth perception
6524. Pronouns
There are exactly three pronouns in which person?
second person
6525. Africa
What is the easternmost continental African country?
Somalia
6526. Memorial Architecture
Like a famous home in Monticello, the design of what presidential memorial in Washington, D.C. was based on the Roman Pantheon?
Jefferson Memorial
6527. Uncle Remus
One day, Br'er Fox 'went to work an' got 'im some tar, an' mixed it wid some turpentine, an' fixed up a contraption dat he called a Tar Baby.' Who was he trying to catch?
Br'er Rabbit
6528. Interrelationships
Flagellated protozoans thrive in the intestines of termites and cannot live independently. Termites masticate wood but cannot digest cellulose. The flagellates ingest the wood fragments and digest them, liberating sugars that sustain the termites. Name this form of symbiosis.
mutualism
6529. Wars
What series of medieval wars were fought to liberate Jerusalem from Muslim control?
Crusades
6530. Mining History
A great mineral strike occurred just prior to the Civil War in the Pikes Peak district of what soon became what territory?
Colorado
6531. Waterfalls
What waterfall in Venezuela is more than twenty times higher than Niagara Falls?
Angel Falls
6532.
The pH scale expresses either the acidity of a solution or its ...
alkalinity (or neutrality)
6533. Ocean Wave Physics
An anchored boat rises and falls once every 6 seconds as waves with crests 20 meters apart pass under it. These waves have a velocity of how many meters per minute?
200
6534. The Electoral College
In what article of the Constitution did the framers define the procedures by which electors would be chosen in each state?
no where
6535. Novels
In Katherine Paterson's novel, 'Jacob Have I Loved,' Jacob is personified by Caroline and Esau is personified by her sister named ...
Sara Louise
6536. Directions
What direction is indicated by the Spanish word 'izquierdo'?
left
6537. Geologic Activity
Name the vents found in Yellowstone and Lassen national parks from which steam issues into the air.
fumaroles (steam vents)
6538. Spelling
Spell the term beginning with 'm' that means an adhesive substance.
mucilage
6539. Congress
These are what kind of committees in Congress? appropriations veterans affairs armed services ways and means foreign relations
standing committees
6540. Terrorism
This defines what form of terrorism? A surprise attack that uses computer technology and the Internet to cripple or disable infrastructure.
cyberterrorism
6541. Slavery
Between 1861 and 1865, many slaves escaping from the South made their way to the north through the Underground what?
Railroad
6542. Construction
Name the metal or fabric strips installed at the edges of doors and windows to reduce heat loss.
weather stripping
6543. Squares
How many square yards are in a square 33 feet on a side?
121 square yards
6544. Snake Prey
How do animals caught by constrictors die?
suffocation
6545. Vision Problems
What kind of vision is lacking in someone with tunnel vision?
peripheral vision
6546. Sales Math
There were 1200 paddiwacks in stock in Nick Nack's Paddiwack Shoppe on Sunday. On the following days, he sold 75, 50, 64, 78, and 135 paddiwacks. What percentage of the paddiwacks remained in inventory at the end of the week?
66.5%
6547. Short Synonyms
What word beginning with 't' is a synonym for 'infinitesimal'?
tiny
6548. Taxes
Smuggling of merchandise into America avoids payment of what type of duties levied on goods brought in legitimately?
customs
6549. The Nervous System
What part of the central nervous system controls functions of internal organs, movements of the gastrointestinal tract, and the secretions of different glands?
autonomic
6550. Historic Races
In 1830, the Tom Thumb lost a race to a horse, but nevertheless convinced people of its promise. What was the Tom Thumb?
locomotive (steam locomotive, iron horse)
6551. Glands
What gland in the neck controls how rapidly the body uses up energy?
thyroid
6552. Military Abbreviations
In the military, for what does the abbreviation 'MIA' stand?
missing in action
6553. Animal Foods
The only food of koalas consists of leaves from what tree?
eucalyptus
6554. Aviation
What is the collective name for the electronic systems and equipment on aircraft?
avionics
6555. Journalism
What is the name for this kind of entry in a newspaper? Colonel Aaron Burr died at Staten Island on Tuesday at the 81st year of his age. Few men in this country have excited more of the public attention than the deceased, despite the dark cloud which shrouded his once fair fame.
obituary
6556. Taxonomy
What taxonomic level is between family and species?
genus
6557. Continental Names
What continent has a name that literally means 'opposite from the bear'?
Antarctica
6558. Regions
The name for what region in George Orwell's novel, 'Nineteen Eighty-Four,' is the same as that for the islands of the Pacific Ocean including Melanesia, Micronesia, and Polynesia?
Oceania
6559. Mineral Identification
There are seven main properties useful in identifying minerals. Name either of the two missing from this list. color, luster, cleavage, fracture, density
streak, hardness
6560. Big Sleeps
When Rip van Winkle awakens, he finds that his wife is dead, his daughter is married, and what war has taken place?
American Revolution
6561.
What is the distance between these points on a graph?
AQ, 4), BO, 9)
6562. Geology
What is a mineral aggregate in which the valuable metalliferous minerals are sufficiently abundant to make the aggregate worth mining?
ore
6563. Federal Finance
What adjective describes a government budget in which the expenditures do not exceed the income?
balanced (surplus)
6564. The Spine
The sacral section of the spinal cord is shortest. Which section is longest?
thoracic
6565. Nonfiction
This is the title of a biography of a general killed during what war? Stonewall
Civil War
6566. Midwest History
During Washington's second term, the British government refused to evacuate its frontier forts of the Old Northwest, despite having agreed to do so according to the terms of what treaty?
Treaty of Paris
6567. Electoral Votes
A state with 32 members in the U.S. House of Representatives has how many votes in the Electoral College?
34
6568. Einstein
Einstein said that the velocity of what in free space has the same value to all observers regardless of their frames of reference?
light
6569. Measurement
Declination is the angular distance of a celestial object north or south of what?
celestial equator
6570. Homesteading
When previously restricted lands owned by the U.S. government were opened to homesteading on a first-come basis, the resulting events were called land what?
runs (rushes, grabs)
6571. Medicinal Hooey
What is wrong with this actual statement by a physician? The patient suffered a fatal demise.
redundancy (pleonasm, tautology)
6572. Fields of Art
Name the art of improving the grounds of a home or estate by artistically arranging flowers, shrubs, and trees.
landscaping
6573. Musicals
In the musical, '1776,' what kind of trade is the topic of the song sung by John Rutledge entitled 'Molasses to Rum'?
triangular (or slave) trade
6574. Silly Poetry
This is from what poem by Edward Lear? They sailed away in a sieve, they did, In a sieve they sailed so fast, With only a beautiful pea-green veil Tied with a ribbon, by way of a sail, To a small tobacco-pipe mast.
The Jumblies
6575. Cabinet Officials
As the first woman in the cabinet, Frances Perkins served as Secretary of Labor for twelve years under what president?
Franklin Roosevelt
6576. Automobiles
The annually renewed document carried in an automobile listing information about the vehicle's ownership is a ...
registration
6577. Former Nations
What country was once known as Iberia?
Spain
6578. Forms of Government
In what system of government does the head of the government have the right to dissolve the current government and order new elections?
parliamentary system
6579. Organized Crime
Name the network of Sicilian criminal organizations active abroad and in the U.S.
Mafia
6580. Bike Companies
Wilbur and Orville Wright formed a company in what state to sell bicycles?
Ohio
6581. The Atmosphere
The magnetopause is the outer edge of what part of the Earth's atmosphere?
magnetosphere
6582. State Sites
These are all in what state? Kit Carson Memorial State Park Pancho Villa State Park Cibola National Forest Santa Fe National Historic Trail Carlsbad National Wildlife Refuge
New Mexico
6583. Clams
A clam can extend its muscular flesh between the two halves of its shell into the mud and pull itself along. Name this appendage.
foot
6584. Wind
Another name for an anabatic wind is what kind of flow?
upslope flow
6585. Presidential Positions
The American annexation of what major piece of real estate was strongly supported by President Harrison and strongly opposed by President Cleveland?
Hawaii
6586. Numismatics
Since 1792, what word has appeared on every coin minted in the U.S.?
liberty
6587. Theater
Spanning the width of the stage, what is the name for the surface behind the acting area upon which scenery is usually painted?
backdrop (backcloth)
6588. The Skeleton
What in mammals consists of twenty-two bones joined by sutures?
skull
6589. Birds
This large seabird spends most of its time in the air over the oceans. It may have a wingspan of over 11 feet, the largest of any bird. Most live south of the equator. Sailors believe that killing one brings bad luck. Name it.
albatross
6590.
The death rate in the Panama Canal Zone had dropped to 6 per 1000 in 1914 against 14 per 1000 when work began on the canal in 1904. This was mainly because William Gorgas had mostly won the fights against yellow fever and what other disease?
malaria
6591. Peaks
These are among the highest peaks in what mountain chain? Killington Peak, Mt. Washington, Camel's Hump, Mt. Lafayette, Mt. Mansfield, Mount Katahdin
Appalachians
6592. Algebraic Subtraction
Subtract 4x - 3 from 7x + 3.
3x +6
6593. Fossils
Mold fossils form when dead plants or animals rot and leave hollows in rock corresponding to their original shapes. If those molds fill with minerals, what kind of fossils form?
casts
6594. Bugs
The punky and the no-see-um are common names for a tiny two-winged fly that resembles a mosquito. Name this very small blood-sucking insect.
midge
6595. Homophones
Spell the homophone that completes this ditty. The ram committed suicide Because he was sad and blue. He heard a singer sing that song, There'll never be another ...
ewe
6596. Seismology
Name the record produced by the marking device on a seismograph.
seismogram
6597. Medical Practices
Name the process of administering weakened or dead pathogens to a healthy person in order to build immunity against a related disease.
vaccination (immunization)
6598. Norse Vessels
The English called what ships of the Vikings 'dragonships'?
longships (longboats)
6599. Navigators
What special kind of navigation did these men complete? Juan Elcano, Andres Urdaneta, Francis Drake, James Cook
circumnavigation
6600. Plant Stems
Stems have three main functions including conduction, production of new tissue, and what else?
support
6601. Lightning
What is the absolutely untrue old saw about where lightning strikes?
It never strikes same place twice.
6602. Fish
What ornamental fish related to carp was developed in China hundreds of years ago?
goldfish
6603. Emergency Surgery
To relieve an upper airway obstruction and enable an accident victim to breathe, an EMT might cut into what thin-walled tube in the neck?
trachea
6604. Nebulae
When a cloud of interstellar dust is so dense that it obscures light emanating from behind it, it is known as what kind of nebula?
dark nebula
6605. Ancient Inventions
Which of Archimedes' inventions was a kind of pump?
Archimedes screw
6606. Astronomical Observations
Granulations are the small, transient, granular markings on the photosphere of what heavenly body?
Sun
6607. Virtues
These quotations are about what virtue? -Our greatest weakness lies in giving up. The most certain way to succeed is always to try just one more time. -It's not that I'm so smart, it's just that I stay with problems longer. -By gnawing through a dike, even a rat may drown a nation.
perseverance (endurance, persistence)
6608. Animal Movements
When an octopus wants to move quickly, it forces a stream of water out of its body characterizing what form of propulsion?
jet propulsion
6609. Color
What is the complementary color of yellow?
violet
6610. Participles
What is the past participle form of the verb 'speak'?
spoken
6611. Sunken Ships
The U.S.S. Maine, sunk in Havana harbor in 1898, was what kind of ship?
battleship
6612. Boiling
What happens to the boiling point of a liquid as the altitude increases?
It decreases.
6613. Astronomy
These are three types of what? astrometric binaries spectroscopic binaries visual binaries
binary stars (pairs of stars)
6614. 3
If you put some iodine on a leaf and, after several hours, the leaf turns dark blue, you know that the leaf contains what naturally abundant carbohydrate?
starch
6615. Latin Abbreviations
What is the abbreviation of the Latin phrase meaning 'in the year of the Lord'?
AD
6616. Spheres
Using 22/7 for pi, to the nearest cubic inch, what is the volume of a sphere with a diameter of 20 inches?
4190
6617. Early American Explorers
In 1514, what adventurer who had previously explored the Florida coast received a patent from the crown of Spain to settle the 'islands of Bimini and Florida'?
Ponce de Leon
6618. Volcanoes
Name the huge basin at the summit of a volcano that is much larger than ordinary volcanic craters?
caldera
6619. Fish
One species of what close relative of bonitos and mackerels may achieve a length of about 15 feet and a weight of more than 1500 pounds?
tuna
6620. Gas Density
A gas has a density of 1.50 grams per liter at a pressure of 760 millimeters. What will be the density if the pressure drops to 730 millimeters?
1.44 grams per liter
6621. Congressional History
Only eleven states were represented at the first meeting of Congress in April of 1789. North Carolina did not ratify the Constitution until a few months later. What state waited until 1790 to complete the union of the original thirteen states?
Rhode Island
6622. Legal Jargon
What is the term for a failure to perform a legal obligation or fulfill a contract?
breach
6623. Agreements
The binding agreement between parties in a real estate transaction under agreed-upon terms is called a ...
contract
6624. Energy
What that is defined as the flow of a positive charge is measured in amperes?
current
6625. Sports Biology
While fishing you run across a guy whose creel is bulging with his limit. You ask him what he's using for bait. His only reply is 'annelids.' What is this guy using?
worms
6626. Gears
Gears are used either to increase or decrease the turning power of wheels or to increase or decrease what other characteristic of wheels?
speed
6627. Antonyms
In civil rights, what is the opposite of integration?
segregation
6628. Weddings
During what century were Ferdinand of Aragon and Isabella of Castile married?
15th
6629. A Knotty Question
An oracle foretold that whoever could untie what intricate knot tied by the king of Phrygia would rule all of Asia?
Gordian knot
6630. Shellings
Name the largest city shelled by the Bosnian Serbs in 1995.
Sarajevo
6631. The U
Immediately before it moved permanently to Washington, D.C., the U.S. capital was located in what city?
Philadelphia
6632. Anatomical Abbreviations
What is the meaning of the abbreviation in the phrase, GI tract?
gastrointestinal
6633. Adjectives
What is the superlative form of 'clumsy'?
clumsiest
6634. Legislation and Politics
Passage of the Kansas-Nebraska Act irrevocably split the Whig Party. Southern Whigs joined the Democratic Party while northern Whigs reorganized themselves into what new and enduring party?
Republican
6635. Southeast Asia
Name the Dutch trading company that drove the British, French, Spanish, and Portuguese traders out of the region now occupied by Indonesia.
Dutch East India Company
6636. Reinforcements
The British defeat of what French emperor enabled them to vastly increase their forces fighting the U.S. in the War of 1812?
Napoleon Bonaparte
6637. Magnetism
What kind of magnet has a magnetic field only during the time of current flows through the solenoid at its core?
electromagnet
6638. Soils
The smallest inorganic components of soil are particles of what fine-grained earthy material that is plastic when wet and hard when dried?
clay
6639. Natural Slopes
The lee slopes of sand dunes, talus slopes, and the slopes of what kind of volcanic cones are usually at the angle of repose?
cinder cones
6640. Time
What time zone is between the Alaska Standard Time Zone and the Mountain Standard Time Zone?
Pacific Standard Time Zone
6641. Federal Administrations
What is the acronym for the federal agency which conducts research into problems of flight within and outside the Earth's atmosphere?
NASA
6642. Prefixes
What does the prefix mean in dialogue, diagonal, and diameter?
through (across)
6643. Revolutionary Actions
At a signal from Sam Adams, a disciplined group of men disguised as Mohawk Indians rushed to Griffin's Wharf, boarded the ships, and threw what kind of merchandise into Boston Harbor?
tea
6644. Regions
The Fertile Crescent runs northward from what gulf?
Persian Gulf
6645. Proverbs
According to the English proverb, what is fair in love and war?
all
6646. Musicals
What musical comedy based on a Hans Christian Andersen fairy tale that includes the characters Princess Winnifred, Prince Dauntless, Queen Aggravain, and King Sextimus features these songs? Many Moons Ago An Opening for a Princess The Swamps of Home Sensitivity
Once Upon a Mattress
6647. Song Lyrics
This is from a verse taken from what American folksong? The old church bell will peal with joy, Hurrah! Hurrah! To welcome home our darling boy, Hurrah! Hurrah!
When Johnny Comes Marching Home
6648. History of China
Two important products were developed during the Han Period in China. One was porcelain. Name the other which was critical for Gutenberg's invention to have a use.
paper
6649. Court
What kind of court is empowered to determine the guilt or innocence of members of the armed forces subject to military law?
court-martial
6650. Second World War
Montgomery launched his attack in October of 1942. After a week's fighting, the Germans had only 90 tanks left - the British, 800. On 3 November, Hitler forbade retreat. This battle occurred near what Egyptian village?
El Alamein
6651. Legends
According to the legend, St. George killed what kind of creature while traveling through a place called Silene?
dragon
6652. Pronouns
What is the intensive pronoun in this verse? Sir, I admit your general rule, That every poet is a fool. But you yourself may serve to show it, That every fool is not a poet.
yourself
6653. Quartets
Members of a barbershop quartet include the lead, baritone, bass, and ...
tenor
6654. Artistic Process
Sculptures or other art objects that have been gilded have been covered with a thin coating of what material?
gold
6655. Ancient Literature
In ancient Greek drama, Ismene, a law-abiding, prudent woman, is the foil of what other character who is headstrong, outspoken, and unwilling to keep her place?
Antigone
6656. Polygons
A polygon in which all sides are congruent and all angles are congruent is described by what adjective?
regular
6657. History of Science
During what century did Sir William Herschel discover Uranus?
18th
6658. Dutch Settlements
Following the discovery of the Hudson River by Henry Hudson, the Dutch East India Company established two permanent settlements along its banks including New Amsterdam and ...
Fort Orange (Albany)
6659. Fungi
What type of fungi is necessary to produce the two consumables mentioned in this line from an Omar Khayyam poem? A jug of wine, a loaf of bread, and thou
yeast
6660. Mideast Travel
In which cardinal direction would you travel to get from Jordan to Turkey?
north
6661. Nominees
In 1807, Thomas Jefferson declined a third term. Instead, he successfully supported his secretary of state for the presidency, a man named ...
James Madison
6662. Physical Properties
What adjective describes solid or gaseous substances that do not dissolve in a liquid?
insoluble
6663. Historical Figures
This concerns what former leader? His disastrous blunders - the senseless liquidation of the kulaks, the terror of the purge, the pact with Hitler, the clumsy meddling with the creative work of writers and scientists - are the blunders of a fanatic.
Joseph Stalin
6664. Palaces
In what state is the Iolani Palace?
Hawaii
6665. Expressions
What kind of writing error is illustrated in these phrases? unintended mistake suddenly exploded same identical usual custom protest against past history plan ahead
redundancy (repetition)
6666. Islands
What is the current name for the Island that Peter Minuit called New Amsterdam?
Manhattan
6667. Vessel Names
What name was used for nine different surface ships and a submarine of the British navy, two surface ships and two submarines of the U.S. navy, a submarine built by Robert Fulton, and a fictional submarine in a Jules Verne's novel?
Nautilus
6668. Mideast Nations
These people all played in role in the history of what modern country? Cyrus the Great, Xerxes, Darius, Reza Khan, Reza Pahlavi, Ayatollah Khomeini, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad
Iran
6669. Silly
What imaginative 'guidebook' was created by Douglas Adams?
The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy
6670. Lizards
What is the only archipelago in which marine iguanas are found?
Galapagos Islands
6671.
The Mexican states of Chiapas, Tabasco, and Campeche are adjacent to what Central American country?
Guatemala
6672. Combining Like Terms
Simplify the following. 7/3x - 1/3x
2x
6673. American Colonization
Unlike New England, which was colonized mainly by families, most settlers in Virginia and Maryland were single men bound in servitude and known as what kind of servants?
indentured servants
6674. Stage Scenery
A two-fold piece of scenery that is freestanding when angled open is called a ...
book flat
6675. Homonyms
Spell a word referring to a part of a sentence that is a homonym for another word meaning the sharp nails on animal toes.
clause
6676. Physical Phenomena
The opposite of radiation, what is the name for the retention of light, heat, or sound?
absorption
6677. Bays
Name the largest bay contiguous with the Canadian Shield.
Hudson Bay
6678. Plant Anatomy
What arises from a plant stem at the nodes?
leaves
6679. Wordy Proverbs
State the original proverb suggested by this wordy version. A disposition towards inquiry deprived the feline of its vital state.
Curiosity killed the cat.
6680. Suffixes
The three similar noun suffixes that mean 'person
who' are spelled 'eer,' 'er,' and how else?
6681. The Circulatory System
Blood leaving the left atrium of the heart is directed toward what organ?
lungs
6682. 19th-Century Songs
The song, 'Follow the Drinking Gourd' is associated with what railroad?
Underground Railroad
6683. Larvae
What is the collective name for relatively thick, wormlike, legless insect larvae?
grubs
6684. Death
Name the Roman Catholic sacrament administered to a person near death.
last rites
6685. Prefix Derivations
These prefixes are derived from what language? ante, pre, contra, pro, ob, semi
Latin
6686. 3
The Asian jerboa, the North American kangaroo rat, and the Australian hopping mouse evolved similar adaptations for hot desert environments such as large hind legs, thin tails, and bipedal leaping. This illustrates what kind of evolution?
convergent evolution
6687. History of Science
What word was uttered by Archimedes when he chanced upon the principle of displacement?
Eureka!
6688. Cooking
What French cooking adjective that sounds like a girl's name indicates foods cut into long, thin strips?
julienne
6689. Leaders
This was from a story about whom? Increasingly isolated since the fall of Communism in Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union, he remains a charismatic personality, dedicated to the maintenance of the Cuban revolution.
Fidel Castro
6690. American Wildlife
Name the shallow depression in the soil in which bison roll and cover themselves with dust or mud.
wallow
6691. Submergent Coasts
When sea level rises with respect to the land, river valleys that lead to the oceans are flooded and the high ridges flanking the valley become headlands. Name the resulting water-filled river valleys.
bays
6692. Scientific Method
In an experiment, name the variable the hypothesis predicts will change with changes in the independent variable.
dependent variable
6693. Crime Math
A city with a population of 250,000 experienced 15,000 violent crimes in one year. What was the violent crime rate per 1000 residents?
60
6694. Magnificent Phenomena
What is described in this 1833 quote? To form an idea of the phenomenon, the reader may imagine a constant succession of fireballs, resembling rockets, radiating in all directions from a point in the heavens.
meteor showers
6695. Food Preparation
These are categories of what in nutrition? antioxidants emulsifiers stabilizers preservatives sweeteners
food additives
6696. Twisted Relationships
In 'The Scarlet Letter,' whom does Hester's husband keep physically healthy while torturing him emotionally?
Arthur Dimmesdale
6697. Botany
What type of fruits on chick-peas and lima beans split down both sides when ripe and ready to release seeds?
pods
6698. Hinky-Pinkies
Complete this hinky pinky for an army mess hall. ptomaine ...
domain
6699. Illustrators
He illustrated articles by Theodore Roosevelt as well as Henry Longfellow's 'Hiawatha' and Francis Parkman's 'The Oregon Trail.' Name this artist-correspondent sent by Hearst to Cuba.
Frederic Remington
6700. The Sun
What part of the Sun's atmosphere extends outward some 10 to 12 times beyond its diameter?
corona
6701. Mountains
The Sierras are in what state?
California (or Nevada)
6702. Human Anatomy
These are classifications of what? coccygeal cervical thoracic lumbar sacral
vertebrae
6703. Music
Having elements of calypso, soul, and rock n’ roll, the music known as reggae began on what Caribbean island?
Jamaica
6704. Word Usage
What should be substituted for the word used improperly in this example? Doris, Dennis, and Dee Dee wanted to evenly share the day's pay between themselves.
among
6705. Vertebrates
All tetrapods have four of what?
limbs (legs, feet, appendages)
6706. Library Science
Books from what section of most libraries cannot be taken from the library?
reference
6707. Queens
Who was the British queen when England defeated the Spanish Armada and Londoners first flocked to see the plays of Shakespeare?
Elizabeth (Elizabeth 1)
6708. Governmental Functions
The broad functions of most governments are the legislative, executive, and what else?
judicial
6709. Injuries
Name the common injury that occurs when a blow breaks blood vessels near your skin's surface, allowing a small amount of blood to leak into underlying tissues.
bruise
6710. Fictional Last Words
These are among the last words of what legendary character? Take thou Excalibur, my good sword, and go with it to yonder water side, and when thou comest there I charge thee throw my sword in that water.
Arthur
6711. Borrowed Words
From what language were these terms borrowed? connoisseur, reconnaissance, entrepreneur
French
6712. Books within Books
In '1984,' a book entitled 'The Theory and Practice of Oligarchial Collectivism' by Emmanuel Goldstein is simply known by what name?
The Book
6713. Cactus Anatomy
Since a cactus has no leaves, what part of the plant is responsible for photosynthesis?
stem
6714. Patriots
Richard Henry Lee was a member of which colony's most prominent family?
Virginia's
6715. Stream Water
What is a stretch of ripples flowing rapidly over a sandbar or rocky shoal called?
riffle
6716. Architecture
In what country is the Sydney Opera House?
Australia
6717. Garden Invertebrates
Plant lice, small, soft-bodied insects with mouthparts adapted for piercing and sucking sap, are also known as what?
aphids
6718. Agricultural Inventions
In 1837, the first steam-powered machine to separate grain from its straw and chaff was invented. Name that piece of equipment.
thresher
6719. Legends
These characters are part of the legends about whom? Gil o' the Red Cap Adam o' the Dell Will Scarlet
Robin Hood
6720. The Declaration
The Declaration of Independence stated that King George had abolished the free system of English laws in a neighboring province. What province was being referred to?
Quebec
6721. Immigration
In 1892, within sight of the Statue of Liberty, the U.S. Immigration Bureau opened a central facility for handling immigrants on what island?
Ellis Island
6722. Concrete
Concrete is a mixture of cement, gravel, water, and ...
sand
6723. American Novels
In what novel by John Knowles does Gene Forrester so envy the athleticism of his friend, Finny, that he causes him to break his leg, thus sabotaging his athletic career?
A Separate Peace
6724. Ancient Monuments
What kind of writing is on the surfaces of Cleopatra's Needles?
hieroglyphics
6725. Sumeria
The ancient Sumerians organized sovereign urban areas known as what kind of states?
city-states
6726. Russian Novels
It has been called 'Exhibit A on the consequences of wrong choices.' Name this story by Leo Tolstoy in which the central character leaves her husband and son for an affair with another man and ends up losing everything.
Anna Karenina
6727. Special Numbers
What is the largest numeric six-digit palindrome?
999999
6728. Onomatopoeia
What onomatopoeic word suggests the deep, ringing sound of a bell?
bong (dong, gong)
6729. DNA
The process of cutting DNA, inserting foreign DNA, and then rejoining DNA molecules is called gene what?
splicing
6730. Longfellow
This is from a poem about what colonial figure? You know the rest. In the books you have read How the British Regulars fired and fled, How the farmers gave them ball for ball, From behind each fence and farmyard wall
Paul Revere
6731. Bays
What bay in eastern Canada is known for its unusually dramatic tidal fluctuations?
Bay of Fundy
6732. Paper Predecessors
During the ancient Roman period, parchment made from sheepskin became the standard writing surface, replacing what other material made from a tall aquatic sedge?
papyrus.
6733. Marine Mammals
Only two species of elephant seals are larger than what tusked, marine mammal that can weigh more than 3700 pounds?
walrus
6734. Body Defenses
What has a person developed who has developed a resistance to infection by a specific pathogen?
an immunity
6735. Planets
Which planet has an average surface temperature of about 15 degrees C?
Earth
6736. Mystery Dialogues
This dialogue is from what story? 'Footprints?' 'Footprints' 'A man's or a woman's?' Dr. Mortimer looked strangely at us for an instant, and his voice sank almost to a whisper as he answered: 'Mr. Holmes, they were the footprints of a gigantic hound!'
The Hound of the Baskervilles
6737. Ecological Analogies
Gnus are to herbivorous as leopards are to ...
carnivorous
6738. The Cabinet
On an alphabetical list of U.S. Cabinet officers, which one falls between the secretary of labor and the secretary of transportation?
secretary of state
6739. Native Currency
Strings or belts of beads fashioned from whelk shells that were once used by many Native Americans as currency are called what?
wampum
6740. Dependent Clauses
As what part of speech is the dependent clause used in this line? Bill reiterated everything he had said about Whitewater before.
noun
6741. Soils
Soils lower than 7.0 pH are acidic while soils higher than 7.0 are what?
alkaline
6742. Colonial Commerce
Slaves and molasses were two of the three items exchanged in 'triangular trade. What was the third?
rum
6743. U
Name the capital of the largest state south of the state in which Pierre is the capital.
Austin
6744. Long Novels
Named after a mythical king and Trojan War leader, what novel is a stream of consciousness account of one day in the lives of Dubliner Leopold Bloom and his wife, Molly?
Ulysses
6745. Embryos
What is another name for an early stage of embryonic development called a blastosphere?
blastula
6746. Biological Homonyms
What term can refer to the flattened part of a moose antler, a type of tropical evergreen tree, or the inner surface of the hand?
palm
6747. Oaths
In the oath of office, American presidents solemnly swear to preserve, protect, and defend what?
Constitution of the United States
6748. Cities
These communities are in what state? Battle Mountain Eureka Ely Elko
Nevada
6749. Instrument Etymology
The name for what optical device comes from the Greek words for 'far' and 'see'?
telescope
6750. European Engineers
Although mainly a builder of bridges, Alexandre Gustave Eiffel designed what monument?
Eiffel Tower
6751. Significant Documents
What document from the French Revolution echoed the self-evident truths of America's Declaration of Independence?
Declaration of the Rights of Man
6752. 3
Name the process of increasing the voltage, current, or power of an electronic signal.
amplification
6753. Heat
You cut a piece of paper into a spiral, tie a string to the center of the spiral, and hang it over a lighted lamp. The spiral begins to spin because of what kind of currents?
convection currents
6754. Arizona Geology
The name, Barringer, is associated with what geological phenomenon in Arizona?
Meteor Crater
6755. Sols
Fog is an example of a liquid dispersed in what phase of matter?
a gas
6756. Myths
Name the ubiquitous and agile Greek deity who had these functions. -protector of flocks and shepherds -guide of travelers -underworld conductor of souls -bringer of good luck -patron of orators -messenger of Zeus
Hermes
6757. A Bunch of Bullets
In 2013, what U.S. agency came under scrutiny for its plans to purchase more than 1.6 billion rounds of hollow-point ammunition over the next five years?
Department of Homeland Security
6758. Energy Transference
Heat energy may be transferred from one location to another within a medium in the form of photons or electromagnetic waves. Name this category of heat transfer.
radiation
6759. Joints
Name the three bones that articulate at the elbow.
humerus, radius, ulna
6760. Spoils of War
At the end of the Spanish-American War, Spain ceded Cuba and what other major Caribbean island to the U.S.?
Puerto Rico
6761. Mistaken Identities
The people of what Latin American civilization mistook the conquistador Cortes for their god, Quetzalcoatl?
Aztec
6762. Agencies
For what does the abbreviation stand? Of the many agencies making up the PHS, those responsible for carrying out its major functions include the National Institutes of Health, the Food and Drug Administration, and the Centers for Disease Control.
Public Health Service
6763. Philosophy
This line penned to John Adams by Thomas Jefferson is reminiscent of a remark by what 17th-century philosopher? I feel, therefore I exist.
Rene Descartes
6764. Story Settings
The setting for the story, 'Cold Sassy Tree,' is in what Georgia town?
Cold Sassy
6765. Hot Literature
This passage is from what story by Ray Bradbury? It is a pleasure to burn. It is special to see things eaten, to see things blackened and changed.
Fahrenheit 451
6766. Volcanoes
Name either of the two active volcanoes in Hawaii Volcanoes National Park.
Kilauea, Mauna Loa
6767. Permutations
In how many ways can eight conga dancers line up in a line?
40,320
6768. Ballads
What captain's name is missing in this verse? I'm Captain ---- of the Horse Marines, I feed my horse on corn and beans, And often live beyond my means, Though a captain in the army.
Jinks
6769. Home Heating
Convection heaters warm a whole room. What kind of heaters spot-heat, warming you or something in the room, but not the air?
radiant heaters
6770. Canyons
In what state is Waimea Canyon?
Hawaii
6771. Criminal Conduct
What offense is based on causing bodily harm to a person by any means or making physical, provocative, or offensive contact with a person?
battery
6772. Legends
What Old West bank and train robber is often portrayed as the American Robin Hood?
Jesse James
6773. Industrialists
With what industry was William Edward Boeing associated?
aircraft (aviation, etc.)
6774. Prisms
What is the name for a rectangular prism with equal height, width, and length?
cube (hexahedron)
6775. Weapons
On what weapon do you find a pommel and hilt?
sword
6776. Suites
What suite by Gustav Holst includes these among its seven sections? Mars - the Bringer of War Venus - Bringer of Peace Mercury - the Winged Messenger Jupiter - Bringer of Jollity
The Planets
6777. Industrialists
Who established the Union Iron Mills, took over the Homestead Steel Works, and by 1899, controlled the bulk of U.S. steel production?
Andrew Carnegie
6778. Skeletal System
The cushions of cartilaginous tissues between vertebrae are called ...
disks
6779. Mammal Misnomers
Despite its name, what common little furry creature is neither from a western African country nor is it a swine?
Guinea pig
6780. International Pressure
Boycotts, embargoes, and other economic measures that one country uses to convince another country to change its policies are known as economic what?
sanctions
6781. Asteroids
The atmospheres of asteroids primarily consist of what gas?
none
6782.
In ancient Rome, Neptunalia was a festival honoring Neptune and Vestalia was a festival honoring Vesta. Name the festival honoring the Roman god of agriculture, Saturn.
Saturnalia
6783. Organized Crime
People targeted for murder by the Mafia are on what kind of list?
hit list
6784. Transfusions
In 1912, the physician Roger Lee showed that blood from any group could be given to patients with what blood type?
AB
6785. U
The Great Serpent Mound associated with the Hopewell or Adena culture is in what state?
Ohio
6786. Explorers
What Portuguese explorer, employed by the king of Spain, embarked in 1519 from Seville, sailed through the strait that now bears his name, and was killed in the Philippines in 1521?
Magellan
6787. Troublesome Verbs
Restate this present tense statement in the past tense. He lays the box down.
He laid the box down.
6788. Archaeological Finds
In the early 16th century, the explorer, Francisco de Cordoba, found remnants of what great civilization on the Yucatan Peninsula?
Maya
6789. Space Spheres
That area of space, around the Earth, which is influenced by the Earth's magnetic field is known as what sphere?
magnetosphere
6790. Mirrors
What adjective generally describes the faces of mirrors that can produce diminished or magnified images, focus light, or simply distort a reflected image?
curved
6791. Australian Cities
Name the third most populous city of Australia and the capital of Queensland.
Brisbane
6792. Construction
A group of wire strands twisted or braided together as a functional unit is called a ...
cable
6793. Iguanas
What islands are the world's only home for marine iguanas?
Galapagos Islands
6794. The Rock Cycle
Through erosion and deposition, what three categories of rock can form sedimentary rock?
sedimentary, igneous, metamorphic
6795. Parts of Speech
'Above' functions as what part of speech in this sentence? Planes were flying above.
adverb
6796. Mammals
Through the efforts of environmentalists, the oil and gas pipelines in Alaska had to be designed to permit what mammals unimpeded passage on their lengthy migrations to feeding grounds?
caribou
6797. Political Apathy
'They' in this quote refers to what political party? First they came for the communists, and I didn't speak out because I wasn't a communist. Then they came for the trade unionists, and I didn't speak out because I wasn't a trade unionist. Then they came for the Jews, and I didn't speak out because I wasn't a Jew. -
azis
6798. Treaties
A hasty and costly peace between the new Bolshevik government in Russia and the Central Powers freed up many battalions of German troops to fight on the Western Front. What Russian leader signed that agreement?
Nikolai Lenin
6799. Biographies
Identify the woman who wrote this biography. My Life with Martin Luther King, Jr.
Coretta King
6800. Pottery
Pottery clay mixed with water to a mayonnaise consistency is called ...
slip
6801. Ecology
It is the planet's oldest and deepest lake, accounting for one-fifth of the world's freshwater reserves. Name this Siberian lake.
Lake Baikal
6802. Adjectives
Express the adjective 'despicable' in the superlative degree.
most (least) despicable
6803. Directions
Cordell Walker walks 10 yards west, turns left and walks another 10 yards. He again turns left and walks 10 yards. He then makes a 45-degree turn to the right and walks straight. In which direction is Walker walking now?
southeast
6804. Bad Times
In the 1930s, newspapers covering park-bench indigents were Hoover blankets, trucks pulled by mules were Hoover wagons, pockets emptied and inside out were Hoover flags, and shanty towns were called ...
Hoovervilles
6805. Antlers
While an antler is growing, it is covered by what highly vascular skin?
velvet
6806. Sentence Improvement
What word should have been used in this line? Because Mr. Andretti has no respect for the speed limit and always drives his car too rapid, he is a menace to all the mice and other living things in the neighborhood.
rapidly
6807. Pronouns
What is the demonstrative pronoun in this line? Such is simply not the case, regardless of what she says.
such
6808. Novels
In a story by Yann Martel, Piscine Molitor Patel comes to be known as who?
Pi
6809. Hobbies
What is the title of the head of a huge U.S. government department most important to people involved with the hobby of philately?
postmaster (postmaster general)
6810. Examinations
In the files about UFOs is a now-discredited film that purports to show physicians conducting an examination of the deceased bodies of aliens found at the Roswell crash site in 1947. Such postmortem examinations, whether of people or aliens, are called what?
autopsies
6811. State Monuments
In what state is Donner Memorial State Park?
California
6812. Moon Missions
Two major setbacks to the Apollo Project occurred with the tragic fire on Apollo | that killed three astronauts and with which other Apollo mission in which an oxygen tank ruptured?
Apollo 13
6813. Bad Bacteria
Plaque, a substance largely consisting of bacteria, produces acids that eat into the hard surface of teeth called the ...
enamel
6814. Scientific Perspectives
Complete this thought by Arthur Clarke. When a distinguished but elderly scientist states that something is possible, he is almost certainly right, but when he states that something is impossible, he is very probably ...
wrong
6815. Coastal Colonies
The voyages along the west coast of Africa sponsored by Prince Henry the Navigator laid the foundation for the colonial empire of what European country?
Portugal
6816. Optical Breakthroughs
The Dutch government rewarded eyeglass-maker Hans Lippershey for inventing the Looker, a primitive optical instrument that is known as what today?
telescope
6817. 2
During what general period in the history of Europe did these inventions emerge? Fourdrinier paper machine Tull seed drill Meikle threshing machine boring machine slotting machine
Industrial Revolution
6818. Economic Geography
Nearly 90 percent of the U.S. lobster supply is harvested off the coast of what state?
Maine
6819. Fields of Earth Science
The study of the properties, circulation, and distribution of continental water from the time of precipitation until it returns to the atmosphere is called
hydrology
6820. Representation
Two members each from Greenland and the Faroe Island sit in the parliament of what country?
Denmark
6821. Duels
The pistols used in dueling were capable of how many
shots before reloading?
6822. Military Leaders
To Englishmen, he became an ambiguous hero. To Arabs, he offered a vision of unity that carried them to Damascus. Name this British soldier and author.
T.E. Lawrence (Lawrence of Arabia)
6823. Theaters
In a theater layout, 'SL' stands for 'stage left' and 'UR' stands for 'upstage right.' For what does 'DS' stand?
downstage
6824. Crime Scenes
What is the slang term for an illegal operation where stolen cars are disassembled and their traceable parts altered or disposed of so that the parts can be sold to repair shops, salvage yards, and indiscriminate buyers?
chop shop
6825. Poets
Historically, what term refers to poets who recited verses glorifying the deeds of heroes to the accompaniment of a musical instrument?
bard (troubadour, skald)
6826. Currents
As the North Equatorial Current in the Atlantic Ocean moves westward, it is deflected by the continental land mass and the Coriolis effect. Name this warm current which turns clockwise in the Northern Hemisphere.
Gulf Stream
6827. Communism
Arising shortly after World War I, name the world's first Communist state.
U.S.S.R. (Soviet Union)
6828. Friction
Any agent that reduces friction between parts that contact each other as they move is a ...
lubricant
6829. Constitutional Compromise
The Three-Fifths Compromise between the northern and southern states stipulated that a slave would be counted as three-fifths of a person for purposes of representation and ...
taxation
6830. Lakes
The largest alpine lake in North America is located in what mountain range?
Sierra Nevada
6831. Sentence Analysis
What two types of objects are in this line? My little brother, Igor, gives her grief.
indirect object, direct object
6832. Medical Proverbs
What word is missing in this proverb? A good surgeon has an eagle's eye, a lion's heart, and a ---- hand.
lady's
6833. Water Weight
Ten cubic feet of water weighs how many pounds?
624 pounds
6834. History of Government
These are what kind of governmental bodies? House of Burgesses Reichstag Knesset Parliament Congress
legislatures
6835. Caves
What is the name for a cone-shaped mass of dripstone on the floor of a cave?
stalagmite
6836. Quinine
The antipyretic property of quinine means that it helps reduce what?
fever
6837. Headwaters
You end up in what state if you follow the Rio Grande from its mouth near Brownsville, Texas, to its source?
Colorado
6838. Rhymes
What word completes this ditty? In Sparkill buried lies that man of mark Who brought the Obelisk to Central Park, Redoubtable Commander H.H. Gorringe, Whose name supplies the long-sought rhyme for ...
orange
6839. Reactions
Every time little Sammy Blucheiser enters a dusty room, his eyes water, his nasal passages become congested, and hives form on his back. These are symptoms of what?
an allergy
6840. Foreign Vocabulary
What is the British term for two weeks?
fortnight
6841. Senseless Idioms
What word completes the idiom in this line? His method of filing corporate documents seems to be without rhyme or ...
reason
6842. Family Ties
The Scottish physicist who first developed a practical application for radar was a descendant of what man who developed the steam engine?
James Watt
6843. Religions
Palestine is known as the Holy Land because of its association with Christianity and what other two religions?
Islam, Judaism
6844. Homonyms
What noun relating to something audible is also used as a verb for whales diving swiftly downward?
sound
6845. Etymology
The name for a very long foot race comes from what famous Greek battlefield?
Marathon
6846. The Caste System
Five classes of people developed in ancient India. Members of four of these classes thought that merely touching one of the fifth group would make them impure and unclean. Name this class.
Untouchables
6847. Triples
What is the third number in this Pythagorean triple? 55 12ers
13
6848. Health Problems
Name the condition involving the depletion of body fluids to the point of illness.
dehydration
6849. Carrion
What is the consumption of carrion from the same species called?
cannibalism
6850. The Senate
What is the term for a temporary interruption of the Senate's unfinished business?
recess
6851. Mythical Courage
Who is the hero's opponent in this passage? Ulysses took his bar of wood, and made the point red-hot in the fire. Next, his four men rammed it into the giant's one eye, and held it down, while Ulysses twirled it round.
Cyclops
6852. Ancient Rome
These were the six stages of what according to the ancient Romans? puertitia adolescentia juventus majores senectus crepita aetas
life (age)
6853. Mineralogy
What is the term for a waterborne or glacial deposit of gravel containing heavy ore minerals?
placer
6854. Pacific Islands
What famed archipelago belongs to Ecuador?
Galapagos Islands
6855. Fictional Characters
What rotund twins who are exactly alike in speech, manner, and appearance were created by Lewis Carroll?
Tweedledum, Tweedledee
6856. Geologic Movements
A very large slice of what U.S. state is moving relentlessly northward relative to the rest of North America?
California
6857. War
Walter Lippman was referring to what war when he said this? We are being told that this war is a decisive test for the future. This is a profoundly false notion and shows a lamentable lack of knowledge of the revolutionary upheavals of this epoch.
Vietnam
6858. Oral Surgery
The removal of a tooth from the mouth is called a dental what?
extraction
6859. Song History
Although he originally wrote it for the Ziegfeld Follies, he withdrew it because he felt it didn't belong in an extravagant revue. Twenty years later it was first performed publicly on radio by Kate Smith. Name this song by Irving Berlin.
God Bless America
6860. Marine Biology
In addition to having cartilage, gill covers, and an air bladder, members of the class Osteichthyes have a skeleton composed of ...
bone
6861. Inspired Geology
What, according to Henry Ward Beecher, has soft architectural hands with the 'power to cut stones and chisel, to shapes of grandeur, the very mountains'?
rain (water)
6862. Multiplication in Base 12
Express as a base 10 numeral the product of these base 12 numerals? 23 and 12
378
6863. Palindromes
What Russian name completes this palindrome? Ah, Satan sees ...
Natasha
6864. Poetic Meter
What meter is longer than pentameter but shorter than heptameter?
hexameter
6865. Legendary Creatures
Cerberus and Hydra have an unusual number of what?
heads
6866. Percentage
A homeowner figured that 60% of his expenses were taxes. His tax bill was $900. The total expense of running his house is ...
$1500
6867. Currency
What monetary unit formerly used in these countries has the same name? Luxembourg Belgium France Switzerland
franc
6868. Nuclear Strategy
Some military theorists believe that nuclear war is feasible only if the attacker can destroy the opponent's retaliatory capacity by being first to employ nuclear weapons. This strategy is called the first what?
strike
6869. Astronomy
The two stars that form the outer edge of the Big Dipper constellation can be interpreted as pointing toward what star?
Polaris
6870. Eyes
What type of eyes consists of many ommatidia, each of them a similar lens forming a facet of the cornea of the entire eye?
compound eye
6871. Days of Impeachment
In 1868, the vote was 35 for conviction and 19 for acquittal in the impeachment trial of Andrew Johnson. How many states were in the Union at the time?
27
6872. Nonfiction
This biography is about what author? Invincible Louisa: The Story of the Author of Little Women
Louisa May Alcott
6873. Word Combos
What compound word appears in the first line of Edgar Allan Poe's, 'The Raven'?
midnight
6874. Scientific Clerihews
What word completes this clerihew? Louis Pasteur As many aver Was on first name terms With all kinds of ...
germs
6875. Newton's Laws
Which of Newton's laws of motion explains why a tool can be placed in space by an astronaut and it just seems to float in one place?
first law
6876. State Nicknames
Sometimes called the 'Gem State' because nearly every type of gemstone has been found there, what state is also called the 'Potato State'?
Idaho
6877. Memorial
A memorial in Hawaii honors the 1,102 sailors killed on what ship in 1941?
U.S.S. Arizona
6878. Specific Gravity
The specific gravity of a sample of rock is 5.52. How much more dense is this sample than pure water?
5.52 times
6879. Fictional Characters
Name the central character in Dale Wasserman's 'Man of a Mancha.'
Don Quixote
6880. Edible Fruit Art
What fruit is depicted in Hugo Van Der Goes' painting entitled, 'The Fall of Man'?
apple
6881. Legends
People in what city believed that they would be safe so long as the Palladium remained in there?
Troy
6882. Literary Techniques
What are you doing when you restate an passage retaining its meaning but presenting it in different words?
paraphrasing
6883. Chemical Idioms
What idiom about dihydrogen oxide means that someone is undergoing great perplexity or difficulties?
in deep water (in over his head)
6884. Rewards
What kind of payments led to the extinction of the Tasmanian wolf and the extermination of most of the grey wolves in the U.S.?
bounties
6885. Warrants
What type of cause is required before a search warrant can be issued?
probable
6886. Homelands
The homelands of the Vikings was in what region of northern Europe?
Scandinavia
6887. Marine Landforms
What landform is illustrated by the Tuamotu, Caroline, and Marshall Islands?
atolls
6888. The Great Seal
What Latin phrase on the Great Seal of the United States often mistranslated as 'new world order' is more properly translated as 'a new order of the ages'?
Novus Ordo Seclorum
6889. Headwaters
What former independent country in the Himalayas that has been controlled by China since 1951 is the source of the Yangtze, Salween, and Mekong rivers?
Tibet
6890. Citizenship
Although she has lived in Omaha for the last ten months, Betty was born in Detroit, went to college in Oakland, spent four years at Fort Benning, and worked several months for a mining outfit in the Colorado Rockies. Betty is a citizen of what state?
Nebraska
6891. Tongue-in-Cheek Definitions
If autocracy is the tyranny of the one and oligarchy is tyranny of the few, what is the tyranny of the many?
democracy
6892. Pronouns
The last pronoun in this line is in what case? Financially troubled Eastern Air Lines reached an agreement with its creditors under which it would give them back 50% of their luggage.
possessive
6893. Spelling Stories
This is from what story? When Milo looked up he saw an enormous bee, at least twice his size. 'I am the Spelling Bee. Don't be alarmed: a-l-a-r-m-e-d.'
The Phantom Tollbooth
6894. Colonists
Colonists primarily from what European country settled in the region around the mouth of the Mississippi River?
France
6895. Rousseau
Complete this line from Jean Jacques Rousseau's work, 'Social Contract.' Man is born free, yet everywhere he is in ...
chains
6896. Chemistry
What is the name for a substance that changes color when put in acids or alkalis?
indicator
6897. Seafarers
Collectively, these terms remind us of what seafaring people? rune, longship, saga, Valhalla, Odin
Vikings (Norsemen)
6898. Paintings
A 19th-century painting by John Waterhouse shows the mighty Ulysses tied to the mast of his ship while his crew is making a desperate attempt to row past what seductive sea nymphs?
Sirens
6899. Tissues
The two folds of tissue in the larynx that vibrate when air passes over them are called ...
vocal cords
6900. State Leaders
What is the title of the head of government in Israel, New Zealand, and Greece?
prime minister
6901. Economic Algebra
A retailer buys several water dogs for x cents per dozen. His selling price is x/9 cents per water dog. What is his profit on each?
x/36 cents
6902. Disease
What is it called when an epidemic spreads to other countries or continents and involves a substantial number of people?
pandemic
6903. Mythical Fruits
In the 'The Odyssey,' consuming the fruit of what plant caused a pleasant drowsiness?
lotus
6904. Useful Substances
Any time you reattach a handle that broke off a coffee cup, tape a note to somebody's door, or paste a photograph into your diary, you are using what kind of a substance?
adhesive
6905. Figures of Speech
What word completes this poem that illustrates personification? Do parks get lonely in winter, perhaps, when benches have only snow in their ...
laps
6906. Forts
These are in what state? Fort Larned, Fort Wallace, Fort Scott, Fort Jewell, Fort Dodge
Kansas
6907. It's Hard, Ain't It Hard!
What mineral cannot be scratched by any other mineral and can scratch any other mineral?
diamond
6908. Meteorite Strikes
The chances that the next major meteorite to strike
Earth will hit land are closest to how many in 10?
6909. Geologic Structures
Graded bedding and cross bedding are present in which of the three main rock categories?
sedimentary rock
6910. Primitive Peoples
What adjective describes peoples who traditionally wander from place to place with no permanent homes?
nomadic
6911. Fantasies
What state name is in the title of a book published in 1889 by Mark Twain in which the author explores the ironies of human nature and existence by placing a Northern industrialist back in the days of chivalry?
Connecticut
6912. The Brain
Name the irregular folds or ridges on the surface of the brain.
convolutions
6913. Pythagorean Applications
What is the length of the hypotenuse of a right triangle whose legs have lengths of the square root of
6 and the square root of 19?
6914. Disease Vectors
Tularemia is often contracted through the bite of what kind of parasitic arachnid?
tick
6915. Ravaging the Natives
As was the case with so many New World Indians, the population of Australian aborigines was dramatically reduced, perhaps halved, by what disease that Europeans brought to the continent?
smallpox
6916. Metric Units
What is the unabbreviated metric unit in this list which could not be used to measure length? km cm mg dm
milligram (mg)
6917. Heat Transfer
Convection transfers heat in what two states of matter?
liquid, gas
6918. Trails
What is the name for a permanent mark cut into trees to indicate a trail?
blaze
6919. Matter
What form of matter has no surface and will spread out indefinitely?
gas
6920. Large Lizards
Name the heavy-bodied lizard that reaches a length of 10 feet and a weight of 360 pounds that feeds on wild boar, deer, and pigs.
Komodo dragon
6921. Anatomy
What type of organ is formed by a bundle of contractile fibers attached to parts of the body which move in relation to each other when the bundle shortens?
muscle
6922. Zoological Anagrams
The phrase, 'a hunt's dogs,' is an anagram for what canines used to hunt male red deer?
staghounds
6923. Composers
What German musician composed the music about the legend of a spectral ship commanded by a Dutch sea captain who had sworn to round the Cape of Good Hope if it took him all eternity?
Richard Wagner
6924. Seaports
Casablanca is a seaport in what African nation?
Morocco
6925. Historical Sites
These historic sites are in what country? Ironbridge Gorge Hadrian's Wall City of Bath Giant's Causeway Westminster Abbey
Great Britain (U.K., England)
6926. Literary Anecdotes
Name the American literary character who cons friends into whitewashing a fence.
Tom Sawyer
6927. Propellers
Red's number two engine on his DC-3 just went out. He immediately changed the pitch on its propeller to reduce drag on the aircraft. Name this kind of pitch adjustment.
feathering
6928. Modular Arithmetic
15 and 39 are congruent to what number in modulo
12?
6929. Wartime Campaigns
In 1943, Allied forces under Patton and Montgomery captured Catania and Palermo, two principal cities of what island?
Sicily
6930. Native American Paintings
In a painting by an Indian who fought at the Little Bighorn, the artist shows Kicking Bear, Rain-in-the-Face, Crazy Horse, and Sitting Bull standing over what dead cavalry commander?
George Custer
6931. Legislatures
What body in the United States is most like the House of the People in Afghanistan, the People's National Assembly in Algeria, the Chamber of the Deputies of the Nation in Argentina, and the House of Commons in the United Kingdom?
House of Representatives
6932. Arthropod Reproduction
The male seizes the female's pincers in his own and the pair shuffles about with their stinging tails entwined. After this dance, they go their separate ways, and when the fertilized eggs hatch, the young clamber to the mother's back where they remain for a couple of weeks. Name these arachnids.
scorpions
6933. Spaniards
Trained as an astronomer and mathematician, what Jesuit missionary traveled some 20 thousand miles and founded 24 missions in Mexico and the Southwest?
Eusebio Kino
6934. Astronomical Anagrams
'Dinar' and 'drain' are anagrams for what term indicating a point on the celestial sphere directly below the observer?
nadir
6935. Fairy Tales
What traditional fairy tale, set in the time of King Arthur, relates episodes in the career of a boy who had a talent for killing giants by cunning?
Jack the Giant Killer
6936. Life
What living structure includes vacuoles, granules, cytoplasm, and a nucleus?
cell
6937. Epic Poetry
John Milton wrote about what ancient tragic hero who was blinded and temporarily stripped of his exceptional strength after Delilah cut off his hair?
Samson (Samson Agonistes)
6938. Root Words
What does the root mean in these words? revive, convivial, vivacious
live (life)
6939. U
Which branch of government is primarily responsible for enforcing federal laws?
executive
6940. Legendary Birds
In Arabian legend, it was a fabulous white bird of enormous size with such strength that it could 'truss elephants in its talons' and carry them to its mountain nest. Identify this bird associated with Sinbad the Sailor.
Roc
6941. Proverbs
How is this proverb usually stated? Soporific canines should be allowed to remain in a prone position.
Let sleeping dogs lie.
6942. Africa
What is North Africa's smallest country?
Tunisia
6943. Combination Problems
In a bag are black marbles and white marbles. How many marbles must you randomly take from the bag
to definitely have a pair of the same color?
6944. Deities
With what meteorological phenomenon are the Hindu god Indra, the Greek god Zeus, and the Norse god Thor associated?
thunder
6945. Regions
What European country includes the regions of Kempen, Flanders, and Ardennes?
Belgium
6946. Research
In correlational studies, investigators attempt to discover ...
relationships (connections, correspondences)
6947. 2
Name the two general categories of rock in which fossils are only rarely discovered.
igneous, metamorphic
6948. The Executive Branch
Identify the two men who comprised the only unelected presidential team in American history.
Gerald Ford, Nelson Rockefeller
6949. Displacement
You walk 3 kilometers west and then 7 kilometers north. To the nearest tenth, what is your displacement from the starting point?
7.6 kilometers
6950. History of Biology
To whom does the pronoun in this refer? In 1869, he discovered a system by which characters are transmitted from adult to offspring. He had, in short, discovered what Darwin only suspected, namely, the mechanism of heritable variation.
Gregor Mendel
6951. Defects
What is the four-syllable term for the visual defect resulting from the lens of the eye refracting the parallel rays of light to a focal point in front of the retina?
myopia (nearsightedness)
6952. Metaphorical Geography
In the 1960s, what was the island of Western capitalism surrounded by East Germany?
West Berlin
6953. Finishing Up
What is the general term for the final skill in a gymnastic routine?
dismount
6954. Currency History
Who engraved the plates used to print the American colonies' first paper money?
Paul Revere
6955. Sunburn
You can be sunburned even on an overcast day because what rays in sunlight penetrate clouds?
ultraviolet rays
6956. Wives
Who was the sixth and last wife of Henry VIII?
Catherine Parr
6957. Solutions
In what phase of matter is the solute in antifreeze?
liquid
6958. Kansas History
Had Kansas voters not rejected the Lecompton Constitution in 1858, Kansas would have been admitted to the union as what kind of state?
slave state
6959. European Archipelagoes
Composed of the oldest rocks in the British Isles, name the rugged archipelago off the west coast of Scotland.
Hebrides
6960. Opera
What is the nationality of the composer of these operas? Ruslan and Ludmila A Life for the Tsar
Russian
6961. Confederate Captives
In 1865, Union troops in Georgia captured what Confederate president?
Jefferson Davis
6962. Offenses
The commercial harvest of white sturgeon in California has been illegal for 100 years. So, when several men were caught selling illegally caught sturgeon to a local fishmonger, they were charged with what crime?
poaching
6963. Asian Peoples
What region of Asia is the original home of the Manchus?
Manchuria
6964. Colonial History
What English philosopher was asked to draw up a model government called the 'Grand Model' for the eight proprietors of the colonial parcel of land between Virginia and Florida?
John Locke
6965. Conjunctions
What subordinating conjunction should have been used in this line? There was one moment where I really thought I was going to drown.
when
6966. Spacecraft
This article from late 2010 is about what spacecraft? Now 17.4 billion kilometers from home, the veteran probe has detected a distinct change in the flow of particles that surround it, meaning that it must be very close to making the jump to interstellar space 33 years after its launch.
Voyager (Voyager 1)
6967. Young Arthropods
Resembling the adult but smaller and lacking fully developed wings, an immature insect is called a ...
nymph
6968. Hawaiian Geography
The Hawaiian islands are next to the Tropic of ...
Cancer
6969. Southeast Asian Earthquakes
The Indian Ocean earthquake that spawned the enormous tsunami of 2004 measured 9.0 on the Richter scale. It was the largest recorded quake since the 1964 Good Friday Earthquake in what U.S. state?
Alaska
6970. Lenses
A compound lens consists of an array of simple lenses with a common what?
axis
6971. Health
Name the clinical state in which the body does not retain sufficient fluids to maintain the normal functions of such activities as blood circulation and excretion.
dehydration
6972. Abbreviations
What abbreviation could have been used below? This incredible document, namely, the Constitution, has served this nation well since its creation.
Viz.
6973. Dramatic Traditions
In 2010, about half the inhabitants of Oberammergau took part in what play staged once every decade?
Passion Play
6974. Echoes
The time delay between a sound and its echo can be calculated by dividing the total distance by the speed of what?
sound
6975. Chemical Compounds
What adjective describes the type of lime that results from chemically combining it with water?
slaked lime
6976. Story Settings
What state is the setting for Marjorie Rawlings' book, 'The Yearling'?
Florida
6977. Mountains
A series of mountains makes a mountain range and a series of mountain ranges makes a mountain what?
system
6978. River Cities
Name the largest U.S. city not in Texas that developed along the Rio Grande River.
Albuquerque
6979. Civil War Alliances
Both the Union and the Confederacy were mostly unsuccessful in developing alliances with what two major European countries?
Britain, France
6980. Shared Names
What saline lake in western Asia and prince in the title of one of C.S. Lewis' fantasies share the same name?
Caspian
6981. Pioneers
In 1847, the Mormons established a permanent settlement near what body of water?
Great Salt Lake
6982. Fog
A well-defined mass of fog observed in the distance over the sea is called a fog what?
bank
6983. Gears
If the driver gear in a gear train is rotating in a clockwise direction, in what direction does the gear adjacent to it called the follower rotate?
counterclockwise
6984. Electricity
The opposition to the flow of electricity is called what?
resistance
6985. Athletics
Name the period preceding an athletic event during which you prepare by stretching and performing limited exercises.
warm up
6986. 3
The first word in this sentence is in what case? Absence makes the heart grow fonder.
nominative
6987. American History
A Dutch trading company established a post in 1613 called New Amsterdam. Today, what city occupies that site?
New York
6988. Landforms
Due to their triangular shape, depositional landforms at river mouths were named after what Greek letter?
delta
6989. Oregon
President Polk said in 1845 that the U.S. claim to the Oregon Territory up to the Alaskan border at 54 degrees 40 minutes was 'clear and unquestionable.' But worsening relations with what other North American country caused him to back off from this position?
Mexico
6990. Literary Techniques
An example of antimetabole is 'Fair is foul and foul is fair.' Complete this other example. One should eat to live, not ...
live to eat
6991. Math
What mathematical property is expressed below? a+b = bta
commutative
6992. Insects
Name the slender wingless insect, related to the grasshopper, which is elongate in every part and closely resembles the twigs or stalks of the vegetation on which it lives.
walking stick
6993. Mountain Sculptures
Name of the mountains in which Mt. Rushmore is located.
Black Hills
6994. Warnings
This is advice about avoiding what phenomenon? -Put down your golf club. -Don't work on fences or pipelines. -Stay away from water. -Get off of hilltops.
lightning
6995. Advertising Parodies
This phrase in an advertisement for Heinz pickles is a parody of a line from what Shakespearean play? What food these morsels be.
A Midsummer Night's Dream
6996. Britain
What two major bodies of water separate Great Britain from the rest of Europe?
English Channel, North Sea
6997. Deserts
What desert was the farthest southern extent of the Roman Empire?
Sahara Desert
6998. Astronomy History
There was doubt about the usefulness of Bode's law due to the apparent gap between Mars and Jupiter. But in 1801, what asteroid was found that filled the gap?
Ceres
6999. Lenses
What adjective indicates the surface of a lens that is hollowed out?
concave
7000. Plant Tissues
What kind of tissues do tracheophytes have that bryophytes lack?
vascular (conductive) tissues
7001. Law Enforcement
The detention of a suspect by a civilian is called what kind of an arrest?
citizen's arrest
7002. Convicts
Between 1850 and 1868, nearly ten thousand convicts were sent from Europe to the Perth colony in what modern-day nation?
Australia
7003.
Whose last words might these have been? I am perishing - expiring - passing away - petering out - departing this life - quitting this world - making my exit - croaking - cashing in my chips - pegging out
Peter Roget
7004. Deserts
The Libyan Desert is part of what larger desert?
Sahara
7005. Sea Battles
What language was spoken by the sailors who manned the armada destroyed by the British navy and foul weather in 1588?
Spanish
7006. Special Stones
What is the color of the sacred stone built into the east comer of the Kaaba, the focal point of the hajj?
black
7007. Inventors
In 1844, a band of 15 Texas Rangers attacked a party of 300 Comanches, killing half of them and intimidating the rest with new revolvers that could fire six shots without reloading. Who invented and manufactured these weapons?
Samuel Colt
7008. Inflammatory Diseases
Mumps usually affects what type of glands?
salivary glands
7009. Navigators
Name the Genoese navigator who was sent westward by King Henry VII in 1497 to explore the coasts of Newfoundland and Labrador. His discoveries formed the basis for the British claim to these areas.
John Cabot
7010. Medical Testing
If you walk out of a medical clinic with a new, small bandage over a tiny wound near the anterior part of the elbow, chances are you just had what kind of test?
blood test
7011. Fast Fellas
In 2012, Fearless Felix jumped from a balloon 24 miles high and became the first person to break the sound barrier without a vehicle. Who accomplished that same feat 65 years earlier in a rocket-powered airplane?
Chuck Yeager
7012. Islands
Cyprus is in the eastern part of what sea?
Mediterranean
7013. Points of View
What point of view is used in 'Huckleberry Finn'?
first person
7014. Homonyms
What one word has all these meanings? -to make a thin, shallow cut -poultry feed -to scrape lightly to relieve itching - a slight wound -to strike out a word -slang for money
scratch
7015. Archenemies
What law enforcement official is the archenemy of Robin Hood?
Sheriff of Nottingham
7016. Matter Matters
Fluids include liquids and what else?
gases
7017. Entertainment
What is the term for each of the sequential productions that make up a TV series?
episode
7018. Tchaikovsky
One composition in 'The Nutcracker' by Tchaikovsky is a dance by what fairy?
Sugar Plum Fairy
7019. Legendary Sons
Who was Uther Pendragon's son?
Arthur
7020. Linked Sounds
When several strings are tuned to harmonically related pitches, they all vibrate when only one of the strings is struck. This illustrates what phenomenon of sound?
resonance
7021. Presidential Positions
What 19th-century president warned that any interference by a European nation with the affairs of an independent nation in the Western Hemisphere would be seen as a 'manifestation of an unfriendly disposition toward the U.S.'?
James Monroe
7022. Bow and Arrow Physics
If you use a bow to shoot a 5-pound arrow, which factor of momentum will be very low?
velocity (speed)
7023. Economic Acronyms
What is the acronym for a cost of living allowance?
COLA
7024. Novels
A group of three related novels in a sequence is called aa
trilogy
7025. Scientific Notation
What number is equivalent to 7.2 x 10 to the fifth power?
720,000
7026. Sci-fi Tales
This excerpt is from what science fiction novel? Life breaks free. Life expands to new territories. Painfully, perhaps even dangerously. But life finds a way.
Jurassic Park
7027. Procedural Slang
What term, reminiscent of an incident involving Tom Sawyer, means to cover up wrongdoing or exonerate officials through halfhearted investigation?
whitewash
7028. Medical Practices
A person with an infectious disease may be kept separated from other people so that the disease will not spread. Name this medical practice.
isolation (quarantine)
7029. Paleontology
Creatures such as the lobefinned coelacanth, the Chinese maidenhair tree, the rootless whisk fern, the tuatara, and the horseshoe crab are popularly known as what kind of fossils?
living fossils
7030. Human Energy
Your energy expenditure at rest is known as basal what?
metabolism
7031. Fish
Based on an obvious common structure, what is the collective name for swordfish, marlin, and sailfish?
billfish
7032. Special Curves
A curve on a plane that turns endlessly outward or inward is called a ...
spiral
7033. Colors
What is the complementary color of red?
green
7034. Makeup
With what type of performer is facial makeup called whiteface associated?
mime (pantomime)
7035. World Powers
At the time of Jefferson's presidency, what nation boasted the world's most powerful navy?
England (Great Britain)
7036. Labor Law
The responsibility of employers for injuries to employees while at work is employer's ...
liability
7037.
The United States Army superceded what other army that was disbanded in 1784?
Continental Army
7038. Novels
In what novel did natives refer to the central character and former ship's officer as Tuan Jim?
Lord Jim
7039. Japanese Entertainers
What color of makeup covers most of a geisha's face?
white
7040. Hydrology
What unit of measurement in hydrology equals 160 square rods covered by 12 inches of water?
acre-foot
7041. Former Territories
In 1907, Indian Territory was eliminated when what state was admitted to the Union?
Oklahoma
7042. Combining Sentence
Combine these two sentences such that the information in the second is used as an appositive in the first. In 1733 Franklin published a book. It was an almanac.
In 1733 Franklin published a book, an almanac.
7043. Research Facilities
Name the once super-secret town in New Mexico where research on nuclear weapons was conducted during World War II.
Los Alamos
7044. Explorers
What navigator working for the British was first to explore what later came to be called Nova Scotia and Newfoundland?
John Cabot
7045. Change of State
The vaporization of a liquid below its boiling point is called ...
evaporation
7046. Mitosis
Name the third stage of mitosis in which the centromeres split into halves that repel each other.
anaphase
7047. Literary Characters
These are characters from what work by Gustave Flaubert? Rodolphe Boulanger, Leon Dupuis, and Emma, Charles, Bertha, and Heloise Bovary
Madame Bovary
7048. Right Triangles
What is the hypotenuse of a right triangle with legs of 12 and 9?
15
7049. Populations
The population of what U.S. state consists of about 33% Caucasians, 22% Japanese, and 15% Filipinos, with the rest mostly indigenous people or Chinese?
Hawaii
7050. Types of Angles
What type of angle is formed at each interior corner of an octagon?
obtuse angle
7051. Taxes
One way Southern states tried to disfranchise black voters after ratification of the Fifteenth Amendment was to require payment of what kind of tax for voter registration?
poll tax
7052. Ornamental Fossilized Materials
Millions of years ago, some trees would seep globs of sticky resin that oozed down the trunks trapping seeds, leaves, and insects. This resin was sometimes buried and it eventually hardened into what golden, gem-like substance?
amber
7053. Golf
Mavis Wuburnski was given a second free tee shot when she hooked her first tee shot off the heads of two gallery members and into the back seat of a Studebaker on the adjacent freeway. Name this free golf shot.
mulligan
7054. Engines
A jet engine is an engine that discharges a fast moving jet of fluid to generate thrust in accordance with which of Newton's law's of motion?
third law
7055. Box Problems
You start with a piece of paper 40 inches wide and 50 inches long. You cut squares 5 inches on a side out of each corner and bend up the remaining flaps to form an open box. How many cubic inches are in this box?
6000 cubic inches
7056. Haydn
In the year 1800, Franz Joseph Haydn composed an oratorio entitled 'Die Jahreszeiten.' Translate this title.
The Seasons
7057. Energy
What kind of energy drives the hydrologic cycle?
solar (radiation, radiant)
7058. Seas
The Gulf of Oman lies between the Persian Gulf and what sea?
Arabian
7059. Etymology
American colonists borrowed these words from what language? waffle, stoop, cruller, boss, cookie
Dutch
7060.
These lines illustrate what tense? Milt does not contribute much to the company. He does work occasionally. He does not call in sick very often.
present emphatic
7061. Life Parts
Where are these structures found? style, sepal, filament, pistil, stigma, stamen
in a flower
7062. Medical History
In 1984, in the first operation of its kind, a 15-day-old baby girl identified as Baby Fae received a heart transplant from what kind of primate?
baboon
7063. Representation
All the people residing in a legislator's district comprise his ...
constituency
7064. Literary Forms
What is the term for a book, essay, or document written by hand?
manuscript
7065. History of Mining
20-mule teams brought borax out of what California valley?
Death Valley
7066. Explorations
Name the expeditions of 1969 and 1970 led by Thor Heyerdahl involving international crews attempting to cross the Atlantic Ocean in reed boats.
Ra expeditions
7067. Song Lyrics
What, according to Julia Ward Howe in 'The Battle Hymn of the Republic' is marching on?
His truth
7068. American Government
These documents are an American political invention. They first grew out of colonial charters. They are older than the federal constitution. What are they?
state constitutions
7069. Animals and Novels
What type of animal is central to Marjorie Rawlings' book, 'The Yearling'?
deer
7070. Displaced People
Name the special camps built to receive people fleeing from conflicts, persecution, or natural disasters.
refugee camps
7071. Keyboards
On most computer keyboards, there are keys with labels like 'F7' and 'F12.' For what does the 'F' stand?
function
7072. Song Lyrics
What are the next four words in the song from a Bogart movie preceded by these words? the fundamental things apply
as time goes by
7073. Elections
What do qualified voters not have to do in an open primary election in contrast to a closed primary?
declare party affilation
7074. 1
The United Nations was founded at the end of what war?
World War Il
7075. Aviation Careers
A pilot who flies a slow, low-flying aircraft to spread chemicals over agricultural areas has what title?
crop duster
7076. Island Representation
What is the westernmost island in the Pacific with a nonvoting delegate in the House of Representatives?
Guam
7077. Logic
Complete this syllogism. If he can spell potato, then he will be vice president. He will not be vice president. Therefore ...
he cannot spell potato
7078. Anatomy
The posterior end of the esophagus terminates in what organ?
stomach
7079. Music
The 'Goldberg Variations' by Johann Bach were written for what musical instrument?
piano (clavier, harpsichord)
7080. Historical Eras
What is the name for that period in history between about 1760 and 1840 during which there was a transition from hand production to machines, an increase in the use of water and steam power, and the development of machine tools?
Industrial Revolution
7081. Chemical Compounds
Compounds collectively known as lachrymators are used in what riot control agent?
tear gas
7082. Scandinavia
Which Scandinavian country is farthest west?
Iceland
7083. Songs
These are lyrics to what song? Some think the world is made for fun and frolic, / And so do I! And so do I! Some think it well to be all melancholic, To pine and sigh; to pine and sigh; But I, I love to spend my time in singing, Some joyous song, some joyous song, To set the air with music bravely ringing Is far from wrong! Is far from wrong! ,
Funiculi, Funicula
7084. Frontiers of Science
In 1996, physicists at CERN in Geneva announced the synthesis of the first antiatoms. These first antiatoms comprise what element?
antihydrogen
7085. Chemical Processes
What process occurs when a solid takes up a gas, liquid, or solid within its structure?
absorption
7086. Etymology
Because silk was so expensive, people found they could beat cotton with sticks to soften the fibers and then rub the material against stones to make it shiny. This cheap copy of silk was called 'chintz.' What adjective meaning 'trashy' or 'miserly' comes from this term?
chintzy
7087. The Confederation
To amend the Articles of Confederation, how many of
the thirteen states had to concur?
7088. Cinema
What art form is central to these films? Footloose Singing in the Rain Step Up Take the Lead All That Jazz Saturday Night Fever Breakin' Strictly Ballroom
dance
7089. Songs
Julia Ward Howe described the main message of what song sung to the tune of 'John Brown's Body' as 'the sacredness of human liberty'?
The Battle Hymn of the Republic
7090. Colonial Period
These were the three types of colonies established in the New World by what country? proprietary colonies charter colonies royal colonies
England (Great Britain)
7091. Governors
Name the New York governor of the 1790s who had formerly been chief justice of the United States.
John Jay
7092. Outlaws
What name for a bold outlaw of the American frontier was derived from a Latin word meaning 'despair'?
desperado
7093. Civilization
Cradles of civilization included the Euphrates and Tigris valleys in Mesopotamia, the Nile Valley in Egypt, the Indus Valley in India, and two river valleys in China. Name either of those.
Yangtze, Yellow (Huang He)
7094. The Bigger They Are
A main events leading up to the collapse of the Roman Empire was the plundering of Rome by a Germanic people in 455. Identify these people whose name has come to indicate those who maliciously deface public or private property.
Vandals
7095. Light
Someone is standing knee-deep in water, and it looks as if her legs are separated from her feet. What optical phenomenon accounts for this?
refraction
7096. Tourist Attractions
The main reason to visit what Pacific island is to see the 600 or so giant carved stone statues gazing out to the sea from the shoreline?
Easter Island (Rapa Nui)
7097. Insects
Three pairs of jointed legs are attached to which of the three main parts of an insect's body?
thorax
7098. Court History
When the first session of the Supreme Court convened, Justice William Cushing arrived wearing something. Thomas Jefferson told him, 'Discard that monstrous thing which makes judges look like rats peeping through bunches of oakum.' What was Cushing wearing that had been customary in British courts?
a wig
7099. Plant Stuff
What partially carbonized remnant of mosses and sedges is used as a soil amendment and fuel?
peat
7100. Adventure Novels
This is from what Jules Verne story? Was I to believe him in earnest in his intention to penetrate to the center of this massive globe? Had I been listening to the mad speculations of a lunatic, or to the scientific conclusions of a lofty genius?
Journey to the Center of the Earth
7101. Mountain States
Which is last on an alphabetical list of states through which the Appalachians pass?
West Virginia
7102. Medieval Performers
What was the name for the wandering medieval singers and reciters of poetry in Europe?
troubadours (minstrels)
7103. Environmental Disasters
In 1991, Iraqi soldiers ignited some 700 oil well fires in what country?
Kuwait
7104. American Literature
Identify the story of Jabez Stone, a New Hampshire farmer who sells his soul to the devil and then, when Mr. Scratch comes to collect, retains a great lawyer and orator to save him.
The Devil and Daniel Webster
7105. Triples
Complete this Pythagorean triple using 'c' as the missing variable name. a squared plus b squared equals ...
c squared
7106. Bad Birds
These man-eating birds that lived in a swamp had beaks of bronze, sharp metallic feathers they could propel at their victims, and toxic dung. Name these loathsome creatures killed by Hercules.
Stymphalian birds
7107. Heavenly Neighbors
What name is given to the member of the Alpha Centauri triple-star system that is about one-tenth of a light year closer to the Sun than its two partners?
Proxima Centauri
7108. Historical Documents
What document issued in France in 1789 was similar in substance to another document signed in North America in 1776?
Declaration of the Rights of Man
7109. Scholarships
Cecil Rhodes organized an enormous diamond mining operation in South Africa. His wealth enabled him to establish the Rhodes Scholarship Program enabling British, American, and German students to attend what university?
Oxford
7110. Special Nicknames
What sobriquet is used for Abraham Lincoln?
Honest Abe (or Great Emancipator, Railsplitter)
7111. Creepy Creatures
The reanimated corpses of criminals, heretics, or suicides that can be put to rest only by having wooden stakes driven through their hearts are called what?
vampires
7112. Horticulture
What is the term for a shoot that arises from an underground root or stem and grows at the expense of the parent plant?
sucker (turion)
7113. Ratios
Determine two numbers whose ratio is 3 to 8 and whose sum is 33.
9, 24
7114. State Subdivisions
In what state could you travel through the Yakutat, Bethel, Dillingham, and Bristol Bay boroughs?
Alaska
7115. Special Years
Name the 12-month period in business or government for budgetary and accounting purposes.
fiscal year
7116. Mammals
Marine mammals include seals, whales, dolphins, walruses, and what carnivores related to weasels and minks?
otters
7117. Legions
The Foreign Legion, known for its work in North Africa, is under the control of what country?
France
7118. Biblical Passages
Who asked the question in this excerpt? Then one of the twelve went unto the chief priests, and said unto them, 'What will ye give me, and I will deliver him unto you?' And they covenanted with him for thirty pieces of silver.
Judas
7119. Historic Seizures
In 1704, the English seized Gibraltar from what country?
Spain
7120. Plans
What name was given to William Paterson's 'small state' plan advanced at the Constitutional Convention in 1787?
New Jersey Plan
7121. State Names
After what American Indian tribe was Utah named?
Ute
7122. Slippage
This excerpt is about what fault? When segments of the Earth's crust slip, earthquakes wrack the land. One jump of 21 feet gutted San Francisco in 1906.
San Andreas Fault
7123. Unusual Characters
In a story by Jerry Spinelli, what is the nickname of Jeffrey Lionel Magee, a 12-year-old homeless boy who intercepts a football on a field of players twice his size, hits an inside-the-park home run without a baseball, and wins a race by running backwards?
Maniac (Maniac Magee)
7124. Military Vocabulary
What is the military term for a soldier who is wounded, killed, captured, or missing during an engagement with the enemy?
casualty
7125. Biographies
Complete this title of a biography about an American abolitionist and publisher. I Will Be Heard: The Life of ...
William Lloyd Garrison
7126. Calendar Considerations
If the Ides of March fall on a Wednesday, on which day of the week will April Fool's day fall?
Saturday
7127. National Parks
Besides Joshua Tree National Park, what two other U.S. national parks are specifically named for living trees?
Redwood, Sequoia
7128.
Name the independent state formerly known as the Moldavian Soviet Socialist Republic.
Moldova
7129. Courts
What court was the judicial body associated with the League of Nations?
World Court
7130. Distinctive Places
Where are these regions? -Sea of Clouds -Sea of Fertility -Sea of Nectar -Sea of Serenity -Sea of Vapors
the Moon
7131. Novels
In 'The Call of the Wild,' what is the occupation of Buck's original owner?
judge
7132. Marine Topography
The areas exposed during low tide and flooded during high tide are called tidal ...
flats
7133. Europeans
Thaddeus Kosciusko and Casimir Pulaski assisted the colonist's cause during the Revolutionary War. They were both natives of what country?
Poland
7134. Hail
Hail is formed when what kind of air currents in a thunderstorm carries water droplets aloft?
updrafts
7135. Spoonerisms
Translate the question in this spoonerism. Silence is best. I mat my mistress and my sleazy lumber. I'll shake off my toes, for they encumber. What if I tub my stow?
What if | stub my toe?
7136. Work
You shove a heavy crate across a floor and back to its original position. You have expended considerable effort, but the only outcome is an elevation in what for the crate and the floor?
temperature
7137. Special Diets
What adjective indicates a diet that omits any foods that might irritate the gastrointestinal tract?
bland
7138. Abbreviations
What is the abbreviation for 'merchandise'?
mdse.
7139. American Poetry
This is from what poem by James Whitcomb Riley? An the Gobble-uns 'at gits you Ef you Don't Watch Out!
Little Orphant Annie
7140. The Cabinet
Which department of the executive branch deals with Native American affairs, fish and wildlife, mines, national parks, and public lands?
Department of the Interior
7141. Winds
Atmospheric circulations that rotate counterclockwise in the Southern Hemisphere are called what kind of cyclones?
anticyclones
7142. Musicals
These are characters in what long-running musical? Victoria, Alonzo, Mr. Mistoffelees, Asparagus, Bill Bailey, Old Deuteronomy, Bombalurina, Bustopher Jones, Carbucketty, Griddlebone, Growltiger, Macavity, and the Rum Tum Tugger
Cats
7143. Life Symmetry
What type of symmetry is characteristic of animals having a longitudinal axis and a dorsoventral axis?
bilateral symmetry
7144. Novel Ladies
These lines are from what American novel? -Love Jo all your days, if you choose. -There are many Beths in the world. -We'll all grow up Meg. No pretending we won't.
Little Women
7145. Ordinal Numbers
The general rule is that when text includes ordinal numbers, one should write out ordinal numbers up to and including what number?
ninth
7146. Sports
What Winter Olympics competition that is a form of pairs figure skating may include moves from tangos, waltzes, and fox trots?
ice dancing
7147. Supreme Court Decisions
In the 1904, Supreme Court ruling on the 'Gonzales v. Williams' case, it was affirmed that citizens of what island nation were not aliens and that admission to the continental United States could not be denied?
Puerto Rico
7148. Unification
The unification of Spain was facilitated in 1469 by the marriage of Ferdinand of Aragon and Isabella of where?
Castile
7149. Meteorology
What term indicates a standard value for a meteorological element such as temperature or precipitation as it has been averaged over a period of years in a given locale?
normal (average, mean)
7150. Explorers
What Scottish explorer is credited as being the first European to reach the Niger River?
Mungo Park
7151. Southeast Asia
What nation lies between Thailand and Vietnam?
Cambodia (Kampuchea)
7152. Net Namesakes
What popular search engine on the World-Wide Web has a name reminiscent of a race of brutes created by Jonathan Swift?
Yahoo
7153. Landforms
These are different types of what landform? dales, dells, glens, vales
valleys
7154. Scandinavian History
What Scandinavian people have been herders of reindeer for centuries?
Lapps
7155. Vitamin Sources
Carrots, pumpkin, and sweet potatoes are significant sources of the organic pigment and precursor to vitamin A called beta ...
carotene
7156. Conjunctions
Name 4 of the 6 conjunctions in this line. Both Rocky and Bullwinkle were hoping to beat or at least tie Boris and Natasha in the race, but they had to withdraw because Bullwinkle sprained an antler.
both, and, or, and, but, because
7157. Forts
Fort McHenry is best known for its role in what war?
War of 1812
7158. Special Temperatures
Name the lowest temperature at which a substance will burst into flame.
kindling temperature
7159. The Stage
At the end of a play, in response to audience applause, the actors return to the stage to take a final bow. This is known as a what kind of call?
curtain call
7160. Hinky Pinkies
A hinky pinky indicatings someone who is extremely enthusiastic about the theater is a dramatic what?
fanatic
7161. Scientific Clerihews
What element completes this clerihew? Sir Humphrey Davy Abominated gravy. He lived in the odium Of having discovered ...
sodium
7162. Radioactive Dating
It takes 4.5 billion years for half of the uranium 238 atoms to turn to lead 206. If a rock contains 75% uranium 238 and 25% lead 206, how old is it?
2.25 billion years
7163. Great Lakes
These border which Great Lake? Ontario Michigan Wisconsin Minnesota
Lake Superior
7164. Ornithology Vocabulary
What is the name for a perch upon which birds routinely rest together?
roost
7165. Poetic Anatomy
In poems, the rhythm of accented and unaccented syllables are organized into patterns called what?
feet
7166. Suffix Spelling
When a root word ends in a 'y' preceded by a consonant, before adding a suffix not beginning with
'i,' you should change the 'y' to what letter?
7167. Depressions
A depression found in areas of karst is called a ...
sinkhole
7168. 3
Name the coagulating substance in certain fruits used in making jelly.
pectin
7169. Frontiersman Poetry
What surname is missing in this verse by Lord Byron? Of the great names which in our faces stare, The General ----, backwoodsman of Kentucky, Was happiest amongst mortals any where; For killing nothing but a bear or buck, he Enjoyed the lonely vigorous, harmless days Of his old age in wilds of deepest maze.
Boone
7170. Inscribed Figures
For a sphere inscribed in a cube, the diameter of the sphere is equal to the length of what?
edge of cube
7171. Skeletal System
Four fused rudimentary vertebrae form what part of the spinal column?
coccyx
7172. Modifiers
What word is modified by 'suddenly' in this line? Suddenly, Wilma made her announcement.
made
7173. Concepts
Name the biased, oversimplified opinions about a group or the preconceived generalizations about a type of person that are applied to everyone in a group.
stereotypes
7174. References
What is the general name for a type of reference book that lists the names and addresses of individuals, companies, organizations, or institutions?
directory
7175. Ocean Currents
When the Brazil current approaches South America, it deflects in what cardinal direction?
south
7176. Optics
Which category of mirrors is used in reflecting telescopes?
concave
7177. History of Kansas
In 1867, what city in Kansas became the first cattle shipping center of the Old West?
Abilene
7178. Art Techniques
In drawing, hatching and crosshatching is used to show what?
shading
7179. Territories
What Canadian territory lies between Hudson Bay and Northwest Territories?
Nunavut
7180. Poetic Characters
Who is the central character in this poem? And there sat Sam, looking cool and calm, in the heart of the furnace roar, And he wore a smile you could see a mile, and he said, 'Please close that door.'
Sam McGee
7181. 2
According to Edward Everett Hale, when Philip Nolan was convicted of treason, he stated that he never again wished to hear of what?
the United States
7182. Star Brightness
Eta Carina is the brightest star in the galaxy if we are speaking of luminosity, or intrinsic brightness measured in watts. But in terms of flux density, or the measure of how bright things seem to us from Earth, aside from the Sun, what is the brightest star?
Sirius
7183. European Geography
Because they are low-lying lands, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, and Belgium were called the Low what?
Countries
7184. Allusions
Harold Ickes alluded to what former Asian leader when he said this in the 1940s? Today in Europe, the Nazi Attila may gloat that he has destroyed democracy.
Attila the Hun
7185. 1
Name the largest island between Malta and the toe of the boot of Italy.
Sicily
7186. 1
What is the locus of points equidistant from two parallel planes?
a plane parallel to and midway between the planes
7187. The Earth
This is about what invisible characteristic of Earth? It emanates from the ground near the South Pole, travels nearly parallel to the ground, and then turns back into the Earth near the North Pole.
magnetic field
7188. Rhyme
What is the rhyme scheme of this nursery rhyme? Sing a song of sixpence, A pocket full of rye, Four and twenty blackbirds, Baked in a pie.
abcb
7189. From Bad to Worse
This is about what law? This 1854 bill to organize western territories became part of the political whirlwind of sectionalism and railroad building, splitting the two major political parties and worsening North-South relations.
Kansas-Nebraska Act
7190. U
Name the strip of land between Texas and California that was purchased by the U.S. from the Mexican government in 1853 for $10 million.
Gadsden Purchase
7191. Early Federal Programs
In 1800, when the seat of U.S. government was being transferred to Washington D.C., legislation appropriated $5000 'for the purchase of such books as may be necessary for the use' of the legislative branch. What institution was thus established?
Library of Congress
7192. Signings
At what cape did these people sign a significant historical and political document in 1620? James Chilton, Edward Winslow, John Tilly, John Craxton, Peter Brown, William Bradford, Miles Standish
Cape Cod
7193. Lyrics
John Philip Sousa wrote these words for which of his marches? Let martial note in triumph float / And liberty extend its mighty hand / A flag appears 'mid thunderous cheers, / The banner of the Western land. / The emblem of the brave and true / Its folds protect no tyrant crew; / The red and white and starry blue / Is freedom's shield and hone.
The Stars and Stripes Forever
7194. Quadrilaterals
Any parallelogram with perpendicular diagonals is what kind of quadrilateral?
rhombus
7195. Rivers
This is about what river? As it flows northward from Khartoum, it passes through the arid Nubian Desert, where vegetation is often restricted to a strip twenty feet wide along its course.
Nile
7196. Legends
This is about what legendary beings? They sit and comb their long golden hair and sing so sweetly that the bewitched sailors let their ships crash against the rocks.
mermaids (Sirens)
7197. Cooking Implements
Used to cook food or keep it warm at the table, what metal dish is mounted above burning fuel?
chafing dish
7198. Song Parodies
This is a parody of what Elvis song? I bought a wiener from the vendor He put it on a bun But I had to take it back cuz The wiener wasn't done Return to vendor Hot dog undone Not enough mustard Soggv bun
Return to Sender
7199. Land Acquisitions
Name a ten-mile-wide strip of land over which the United States gained control in 1903.
Canal Zone
7200. Scandals
In 2012, officials of the U.S. General Services Administration were questioned by Congress regarding more than $800,000 spent on a lavish, four-day conference held in what city?
Las Vegas
7201. Viscosity
How does the viscosity of ocean water compare to that of pure water?
It is higher.
7202. Explorers
The first Europeans to set foot on the North American continent since the Vikings had landed hundreds of years before were part of an expedition led by whom?
John Cabot
7203. Underground Railroad
On the Underground Railroad, the routes from safe-house to safe-house were called lines and were roughly 15 miles long, the stopping places were called stations, those who aided fugitive slaves were called conductors, and the slaves themselves were known as what?
packages (freight)
7204. Mythical Allusions
What mythical Greek woman's name is used in a modern allusion to any present that seems valuable but is actually a curse?
Pandora
7205. Steep Roads
The slope of a road that rises 40 feet in a run of 100 feet is what percent?
40%
7206. Medical Practitioners
What is the term for a physician who limits his practice to a particular branch of medicine after considerable postgraduate training in that area?
specialist
7207. First Aid
If you were sitting in a cafe and someone at the next table suddenly cannot speak, turns blue, and collapses, you should immediately administer what lifesaving technique?
Heimlich maneuver
7208. Vertebrate Taxonomy
If the classes of vertebrates are arranged alphabetically, which is last?
reptiles (Reptilia)
7209. Insects
Stink bugs belong to what group of insects?
beetles (Coleoptera)
7210. Etymology
What month of the year got its name from a Roman dictator after whom a calendar was also named?
July
7211. Asian Nations
In what cardinal direction is Bhutan from Bangladesh?
north
7212. Atmospheric Particles
While particles greater than ten micrometers in diameter tend to settle to the ground in a matter of hours, particles less than 1 micrometer can stay in the atmosphere for weeks and are mostly removed by what?
precipitation (rain, snow)
7213. Grasshoppers
Located on each side of the first abdominal segment of a grasshopper, what is the function of the tympana?
hearing
7214. Congress
What is the title of the leader of the house of Congress which must originate all bills for raising revenue?
speaker of the House
7215. Cities
Georgetown is the largest city and capital of what South American country?
Guyana
7216. Chemical Processes
Coal is mixed with steam and oxygen under controlled conditions to produce methane in a process called coal ...
coal gasification
7217. Polling
What is the name for an informal round of voting, the results of which are not recorded?
straw poll
7218. Verbs
In addition to the main verb, what other type of verb is illustrated in this line? Drosophila should have told Gene about her fondness for fruit.
helping verb
7219. Solids
A polyhedron is a solid with faces in the shape of ...
polygons
7220. Facilities
What kind of facilities are the Abbey, Ford's, the Globe, the Old Vic, the Bolshoi, and Grauman's Chinese?
theaters
7221. Poems
These are examples of what kind of poems? The Death of Morgan The Dying Cowboy Robin Hood and the Monk Lochinvar The Shooting of Dan MacGrew The Highwayman
ballads
7222. Playing Politics
In 1904, Theodore Roosevelt was accused of delaying statehood for what three states because they would probably vote Democratic?
Oklahoma, Arizona, New Mexico
7223. Plate Tectonics
The Hellenic arc lies just to the south of what sea?
Aegean Sea
7224. Radiation
Emission of what kind of radiation from arc welders may cause temporary blindness?
ultraviolet
7225. Images
What kind of mirror always forms a virtual image that cannot be projected onto a screen?
convex (diverging) mirror
7226. Political Posters
This poster makes reference to what presidential candidate? SHIP CARPENTERS TO YOUR POSTS!!! Moses H. Grinnell will not employ any ship carpenter who dares to avow his support of the Hero of New Orleans.
Andrew Jackson
7227. Inflammations
Osteomyelitis is the inflammation of what?
bone (or bone marrow)
7228. Last Messages
Who transmitted these words that were received by the U.S. Coast Guard Cutter Itasca near Howland Island in 1937? We must be on you, but cannot see you. Gas is running low. Have been unable to reach you you by radio. We are flying at 1000 feet.
Amelia Earhart
7229. Medical Providers
What is the term for a soldier trained to provide first aid and frontline trauma care on the battlefield?
medic (combat medic, corpsmen)
7230. African Valleys
What valley at Thebes is a dry watercourse on the west bank of the Nile and the burial place of Egyptian tulers from 1567 B.C. to 1085 B.C.?
Valley of the Kings
7231. Homophones
Spell the term for a provincial governor in the Ottoman Empire or a ruler of the former kingdom of Tunis that is a homophone for a body of water enclosed by land but with a wide mouth opening to the sea.
bey
7232. Crimes Real and Imagined
With what crime are Philip Nolan and Aaron Burr associated?
treason
7233. Hijackers
Fifteen of the nineteen September 11 hijackers were of what nationality?
Saudi Arabian
7234. Stories
This is from what story? How bad could a worm taste? Billy had eaten fried liver, salmon loaf, mushrooms, tongue, and pig's feet. Heck, he could gag anything down for fifty dollars, couldn't he?
How to Eat Fried Worms
7235.
The term, 'totalitarianism,' was first used to describe the organizational principles of what political party in Germany?
Nazi (National Socialist)
7236. Nuclear Energy
The splitting of uranium atoms whereby they emit neutrons that split other atoms in a continuing process is what kind of reaction?
chain (fission) reaction
7237. Grammatical Analogies
'Telling' is to active as 'being told' is to ...
passive
7238. Required Symbols
What group of Europeans wore yellow stars on their clothing in the 1940s?
Jews
7239. Printing
These are all varieties of what? Heidelberg, Palatino, Sand, Helvetica, Arial, New Times Roman, Bookman Old Style
fonts
7240. Art History
Many old paintings and mosaics depict people that seem to be as tall as buildings or mature trees. This indicates that these artists had not yet developed techniques for representing what?
proportion (or perspective)
7241. Ancient Oceans
What name meaning 'all sea' means the ancient sea that once surrounded Pangaea?
Panthalassa
7242. Fictional Heroes
Based on his homeland, Conan the Barbarian is also known as Conan the what?
Cimmerian
7243. Inventions
What invention of 1834 by a Virginian replaced the sickle for harvesting wheat?
reaper
7244. Terrorism
Virtually everyone on the FBI's list of most wanted terrorists is of what faith?
Islam (Mohammedanism)
7245. Asimov
In Asimov's 'The Caves of Steel,' the joint heroes are a man and a...
robot
7246.
What kind of alcohol fuel is made from corn and sugar cane?
ethanol
7247. Marsupials
Name the burrowing nocturnal carnivorous marsupial of Tasmania with a blackish coat and a long, almost hairless tail.
Tasmanian devil
7248.
In the era of triangular trade, what commodity produced in the Caribbean would be shipped to either New England or to Europe where it would be distilled into rum?
sugar (or sugarcane or molasses)
7249. Nuclear Accidents
This concerns a disaster at what site? The big Mi-8 helicopters that were used to drop sand into the blazing reactor in 1986 collected such heavy radiation that they now rest in a field along with hundreds of contaminated vehicles.
Chernobyl
7250. Early Americans
The ancestors of American Indians who crossed the Bering Strait across a land bridge were of what genus and species?
Homo sapiens
7251. Polyps
Colonies of polyps produce a limestone formation called ...
coral
7252. Number Patterns
If the sum of the numbers from 1 through 10 is 55 and the sum of the numbers from 1 through 100 is 5050, what is the sum of the numbers from 1 through 1000?
500,500
7253. Hexagons
The side of a regular hexagon is 6. Its area equals how many times the square root of 3?
54
7254. Goddesses
What Hindu goddess symbolizes the essence of destruction and bloodthirstiness?
Kali
7255. Mood-Altering Drugs
What is the term for chemical agents such as caffeine and nicotine that temporarily arouse or accelerate physiological activity?
stimulants
7256. Pop Music History
These are words from the song, 'American Pie.' I can't remember if I cried / When I read about his widowed bride / But something touched me deep inside / The day the music died.' This refers to the tragic plane crash in 1959 that took the lives of the Big Bopper, Richie Valens, and what other star?
Buddy Holly
7257. Reading Comprehension
In literature, a general conclusion drawn from particulars is called an ...
inference
7258.
Deposits of what partially carbonized vegetable matter accumulate in bogs?
peat
7259. Earthquake Prediction
Studies in China, Russia, and the U.S. have shown that just before an earthquake, in response to mountain strain, greater amounts of what inert gas are released and dissolved in groundwater?
radon
7260. Insects
What is deposited by the ovipositor at the hind end of the abdomen of female insects?
eggs
7261. Bad Relations
In 1999, resulting from renewed investigations of the Waco tragedy involving the Branch Davidians, the relationship between the nation's top prosecutors and its premier police agency sank to a new low. Name these organizations.
Department of Justice, FBI
7262. European Nationalities
What is the nationality of people living along the west coast of the Aegean Sea?
Greek
7263. Electricity
What unit of electrical measurement equals one thousand kilowatts?
megawatt (MW)
7264. Allusions
This complaint alludes to a novel by whom? Working for this company is dreadful because you always have the feeling that Big Brother is watching you.
George Orwell
7265. Space Programs
What NASA program fulfilled this goal set by President Kennedy? I believe that this nation should commit itself to achieving the goal before this decade is out of landing a man on the Moon and returning him safely to Earth.
Apollo Program
7266. Islands
What island is at a longitude of 40 degrees west and a latitude of 80 degrees north?
Greenland
7267. The Spine
Name either of the two parts of the human vertebral column that includes fused vertebrae.
sacrum, coccyx
7268. Fictional Ships
What ship in Robert Louis Stevenson's 'Treasure Island,' is named for a West Indies island east of Cuba that is divided into two countries?
Hispaniola
7269. Assassins
What presidential assassin was killed near Bowling Green, Virginia?
John Wilkes Booth
7270. Fictional Characters
What is the first name of the central character in these stories? The Great Brain at the Academy The Return of the Great Brain The Great Brain Is Back More Adventures of the Great Brain The Great Brain Does It Again
Tom
7271. The Continents
Name the shallow submarine platform at the edge of a continent that inclines very gently seaward, generally at an angle of less than one degree.
continental shelf
7272. Literary Limericks
What word completes this limerick? Alas, Douglas Adams has died, 'Don't Panic,' his readers all cried. For in St. Peter's line, He'll be asked, 'Six times nine?' And the answer is found in the ...
Guide
7273. Horses
The horse was first introduced on a large scale into what is now the U.S. by what Spanish explorer who searched for the Seven Cities of Cibola?
Francisco Coronado
7274.
What field of science was initiated when the Englishman Sir Francis Galton discovered that no two people have exactly the same pattern of ridges on their fingertips?
fingerprinting
7275. Space Exploration
Three astronauts died in 1971 when their space capsule developed an air leak upon reentry. In that same year, another space capsule soft-landed on Mars. Both crafts were launched by what country?
Soviet Union (U.S.S.R.)
7276. Symptoms
These are symptomatic of what problem requiring an immediate first aid response? convulsions, gagging, grasping at the throat, noisy breathing, bluish skin, weak coughing
choking
7277. Element Etymology
Aside from cerium, what other element was named for what is now classified as a dwarf planet?
plutonium
7278. Literary Conflict
If a character is fighting against something within himself or herself, such as fear, anger, or melancholy, the conflict is ...
internal
7279. Acronyms
What is the acronym for 'sound navigation and ranging'?
sonar
7280. Crimes
If a person falsely claims to represent a charity to obtain a donation that he then keeps for himself, this crime of misstating facts to obtain money is called ...
misrepresentation (fraud)
7281.
What character in 'Great Expectations' teaches her adopted daughter to hate men?
Miss Havisham
7282. Prime Ministers
Zulfikar Ali Bhutto was prime minister of what country from 1973 to 1977?
Pakistan
7283. Burning Buildings
Military units from what country burned much of the building at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue?
Great Britain (England)
7284. The Bells
In what city would you find the Bicentennial Bell, the Centennial Bell, and the Liberty Bell?
Philadelphia
7285. Religious Architecture
Jewish places of worship are called ...
synagogues (temples)
7286. Princes
Name the prince in 'The Prince and the Pauper.'
Edward
7287. Stories
Lloyd Alexander wrote what story in which an army of warriors is built from the bodies of slain people?
The Black Cauldron
7288. Protests
In 1963, 200,000 blacks and their supporters rallied in Washington D.C. to press their demands for equal rights. Who led this march?
Martin Luther King
7289. Landforms
Palisades consist of a line of prominent ...
cliffs
7290. Environmental Disasters
This is about what ship? The possible environmental cost of heavy oil usage became clear in 1989 when an oil tanker struck a reef in Prince William Sound, Alaska, spilling about 10 million gallons of crude oil and creating a slick covering an area the size of Massachusetts.
Exxon Valdez
7291. Myths
According to legend, seven Greek maidens and seven Greek youths were sent to the king of Crete each year where they were fed to what monster?
Minotaur
7292. Bioluminescence
Bioluminescence is light produced by organisms as a result of conversion of what kind of energy to radiant energy?
chemical energy
7293. New York Geography
These cities in New York are all along what river? Troy, Albany, Kingston, Newburgh, Poughkeepsie, West Point
Hudson River
7294. 3
He served under George Washington at the Battle of Brandywine and at Valley Forge, and played a role in the Battle of Yorktown. Name this famed French officer and American Revolutionary War general.
Marquis de Lafayette
7295. Optics
The area visible through an optical instrument is the ...
field of view
7296. Star Magnitude
There are two types of star magnitudes. Apparent magnitude is the star's brightness as seen from Earth. The brightness at a standard distance of 10 parsecs is called ...
absolute magnitude
7297. Foreign Policy
In relation to European colonization, the United States issued its first comprehensive foreign policy statement 1823, a declaration known as the ...
Monroe Doctrine
7298. Mideast Rivers
What river arises in Syria from springs near Mount Hermon, flows south to Lake Merom, then through the Sea of Galilee, and finally into the Dead Sea?
Jordan River
7299. Caribbean Countries
What West Indian commonwealth was discovered by Columbus, settled by Ponce de Leon, and ceded to the U.S. after the Spanish-American War?
Puerto Rico
7300. Weather Alerts
What kind of notice do meteorologists issue when strong rotation in a thunderstorm is indicated by weather radar or when a tornado has actually been sighted?
tornado warning
7301. Taxonomy
Pinus strobus is the scientific name for the white pine. In what genus does the white pine belong?
Pinus
7302. Mountains
What mountain range is the setting for these works? The Amethyst Ring Our Children of the Sun The Lost Tomb of Viracocha A Walking Tour of Machu Picchu Inca Gold
Andes
7303. Disease
What disease agent discussed in the book, 'The Hot Zone,' was also the basis of the movie, 'Outbreak'?
virus
7304. English Novels
The central event in what novel concerns the alleged attempted rape in the Marabar Caves of India of an English woman by a young surgeon named Dr. Aziz?
A Passage to India
7305. Sailing Ship Crews
What was the title of those who carried gunpowder from the lower decks to the cannons of sailing ships?
powder monkeys
7306. Lift
Lift on an airplane wing occurs because the air is flowing ---- across the upper surface than the lower.
faster (farther)
7307. Consumer Safety
Manufacturers of products already on the market that are found to have some characteristic making them unsafe will request them to be returned by issuing what kind of request?
recall
7308. Juries
A hung jury cannot agree on what?
a verdict
7309. Earth's Interior
Upward movement of low-density material and downward movement of high-density material within the Earth sets up what kind of currents?
convection currents
7310. Marine Life Zones
What that is totally absent in the oceans! aphotic zones is present in their photic zones?
light
7311. Prescriptions
When Natasha had used up all of the pills in her prescription, she returned to her drugstore to get another batch of those same pills. What is the name for such pill replacements?
refills
7312.
What is the three-word name for the imaginary line on the Earth's surface that joins the north and south poles and follows the 180 degree meridian through the Pacific Ocean?
International Date Line
7313. Newspapers
What adjective describes the inches by which advertising is typically sold in magazines and newspapers?
column
7314. Powers of Numbers
The number 0.0001 equals 1 times ten to what power?
minus fourth power
7315. Explosives
The ancient Chinese made gunpowder by mixing saltpeter, charcoal, and what yellow nonmetallic element?
sulfur
7316. Quadrilaterals
Quadrilateral ABCD is a parallelogram. The measure of angle a is 80 degrees. What is the measure of angle c?
80 degrees
7317. Science Fiction Stories
Name the work by Robert Louis Stevenson about a benevolent mild-mannered doctor who became transformed by drinking a potion.
Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde
7318. The Mideast
What nation has shorelines on the Red Sea and the Persian Gulf?
Saudi Arabia
7319. Acids
Acids are classified as dehydrating agents. Therefore, we know that acids remove what compound from a substance?
water
7320. Hardships
Washington and the Colonial Army endured the terrible winter of 1777 where in eastern Pennsylvania?
Valley Forge
7321. Ancient Kings
King Assurbanipal died in 626 B.C. after a 43-year reign during which what ancient empire reached its zenith?
Assyria
7322. Neurosis
A pyrophobic has a morbid fear of ...
fire
7323. Tribunals
A tribunal from which there is no appeal is a court of last ...
resort
7324. Verse
What kind of verse is this by John Lennon? The Mungle pilgriffs far awoy Religeorge too thee worled. Sam fells on the waysock-side And somforbe on a gurled, With all her faulty bagnose!
nonsense verse
7325. Planetary Rotation
If you are looking at the South Pole from space, the Earth is rotating in which clock direction?
clockwise
7326. Chocolate
Chocolate is obtained from the seeds of what kind of tree?
cacao
