Dwight: Once I brought in a duck. To prepare for lunch. And, people got...upset. Apparently, they got attached to the duck, and didn't want to see it killed.

Dwight: He was already dead, and we Schrutes use every part of the goose. The meat has a delicious, smoky, rich flavor. Plus you can use the molten goose grease and save it in the refrigerator, thus saving you a trip to the store for a can of expensive goose grease.
Jim: Wow...win-win.
Dwight: Exactly! Thank you Jim...
Phyllis: I like goose...It's already dead - is it so crazy that we eat it?
Creed: That's crazy...It's crazy.

Jim: It's a bold move, to photoshop yourself into a picture with your girlfriend and her kids on a ski trip with their real father - but then again Michael's a bold guy...Is "bold" the right word?

Pam: For the past few months, I've been sending Dwight letters from the CIA...They're considering him for a top-secret mission...This is where I made list every secret he promised he'd never, ever tell!...So, here's the gift - you get to decide what his top-secret mission is!
Jim: You know what, I really don't think I should be doing this stuff anymore though...
Pam: Oh...of course...

Michael: We're going to Asian Hooters!
Ryan: I can't...
Michael: Why not?
Ryan: I'm not feeling so well...I've got a ton of work to do here...MSG allergy...peanut allergy...I just ate there last night... Jim: Wow! Thanks for taking all the excuses, dude...

Ryan: Doctor's appointment...car trouble...planter warts...granddad fought in World War II...Use your head, man - I keep mine in here...Look alive, Halpert - welcome back!

Kevin: I hear Angela's party will have double-fudge brownies...but it will also have Angela. So, double-fudge...Angela... Double fudge......Angela...Hmmmmmmm...

Karen: Are we taking this too far? No, I don't think we're taking this far enough.
(Pam shudders)
Karen: What?
Pam: You gave me goosebumps.

Jim: Oh, no, this is different! The CIA thing? That was a prank on Dwight, this is more like a, um...OK, it's pretty much the same thing!

Jim: You just had a rebound...which, don't get me wrong, can be a really fun distraction...but when it's over, you're left thinking about the girl you really like, the one that broke your heart.

Jim: Goodnight, Pam.
Pam: G'nite!
Jim: Oh, you know what? Sorry, I forgot to tell you - I intercepted a transmission earlier, and it seems that the CIA is gonna need Dwight down at their headquarters at Langley for training...and an ice cream social with the other agents.
Pam: We should get him a bus ticket - to make his trip easier...It costs $75...
Jim: Well, maybe the CIA could send a helicopter!


Erin: The tea in Nepal is very hot.

Kevin: But the coffee in Peru is much hotter. [Erin buzzes him into the office]

Dwight: Last week I finally became permanent manager of Dunder Mifflin Scranton. My first project: increase security. I got these doors from a jewelry store that had recently gone out of business. Now they're protecting America's real treasure, paper. Every morning I email the day's security codes. Something that's been really missing from my life has been writing secret codes. It's not the KGB, but it's a start.

Erin: The tea in Nepal is very hot.

Dwight: But the coffee in Peru is far hotter.

Erin: Close.

Dwight: This is Tuesday, right? The coffee in Paraguay is far hotter?

Erin: Colder.

Dwight: The coffee in Paraguay is colder?

Erin: No, I meant you're getting colder. The correct response is, "the coffee in Peru is much hotter."

Dwight: Ah, much, ok.

Erin: But, that's three wrong, so I gotta give you the steam. [Dwight begins to protest] Unless you want me to break protocol?

Dwight: No, no. Give me the steam.

Dwight: It's just harmless steam to panic intruders. I'd like to get harmful steam, but the prices are absurd.

Dwight: [while getting steamed] Break protocol! Break protocol! Break protocol!

Creed: [carrying in clothes on hangers] Oh, I'm saving a fortune on dry cleaning.

Philip: Mama!

Oscar: Angela, someone wants you.

Angela: Ok, coming. Hi, baby.

Oscar: Angela's divorce from the senator has been very difficult for her. When she got kicked out of her apartment, I invited her to move in with me. Ironic that it's Angela who's living in the closet. Hey-o.

Oscar: Saddle shoes. With denim? I will literally call child services.

Esther: Go get ‘em, honey.

Dwight: Oh, don't worry. They'll get got.

Dwight: Manager of Dunder Mifflin? Check. Owner of a 1600-acre beet farm? Check. Engaged to be married to an actual milkmaid? Check... on that later today. This is my grandmother's ring. It was made from a bullet I took out of her left buttock. She was a moonshiner shot by Adolph Coors. This is my grandmother's buttock bullet ring.

Andy: Hello, good morning. My name is Andrew Bernard. You might know me from a TV documentary that's premiering tonight. I also killed it in local theater and I am fresh off of a hot industrial flick.

Check-in guy: Ok, thanks. Go ahead and get in the back of the line.

Andy: Yes!

Andy: Well, burned all my bridges at Dunder Mifflin, and time to become the next American Idol. By winning America's Next A Cappella Sensation. On channel TBD. It's a really cool show, it's like a revision of the whole American Idol, Voice, Sing-Off phenomenon. On this show, all three judges are mean!

Jim: Sales form for you to sign.

Dwight: You know what to do. [waits for Jim to put form in inbox, signs it and returns it to outbox] Ok

Dwight: Behind every great regional manager is a great assistant to the regional manager, and I have chosen one of the best.

Jim: Aw, thanks, man.

Dwight: Once upon a time we were natural enemies, but we've overcome our differences. Much like Germany and Italy in World War—

Jim: No.

Dwight: Good call. Together we run a no-nonsense office.

Jim: Pre-conference room meeting with Dwight went really well.

Pam: Oh, bodes well for the post-conference room meeting.

Jim: All depends on the conference room meeting itself. [phone chimes] Uh, okay.

Pam: Is that them again?

Jim: Yeah.

Pam: Maybe you should call back?

Jim: I will. I will.

Jim: The guys at Athlead are still bugging me about this three month roadshow thing. Meeting athletes on their home turf, building relationships. Yeah, it sounds exciting. But I said no, and that's final. I almost lost Pam over this business. I'm not risking that again.

Pam: When Jim decided to come back to Scranton full-time, I was relieved, but I also feel a little guilty. I mean, he's giving up this big thing for me. But he seems happy. I mean, he's certainly been goofing around a lot. I love goofy Jim.

Dwight: Welcome.

Jim: He welcomes you.

Dwight: Please take an agenda item.

Jim: Your agenda-taking pleases him.

Dwight: Have a seat, Phyllis. There we go. As you know, I like to begin each day with an inspirational quote. "Some say the only failure there is is the failure to try." [buzzer sound] That is wrong. Failure of any kind is failure. Jim, over to you.

Jim: Let's not get crazy and ruin our no-nonsense streak, all right? So, for instance, if you're expecting a fax today, please don't yell out, "Michael J. Fax from Fax to the Future." Ok? That's nonsense.

Pam: Question.

Jim: Yes, beautiful girl in the front.

Pam: We are expecting a water delivery today at 10am. What if, as they're delivering the water jugs, someone screams out, "Nice jugs"?

Jim: That's obviously nonsense. Nonsense. And what percentage of nonsense do we tolerate in this office?

Everyone: [overlapping] Zero. No nonsense. You can't have nonsense.

Dwight: [as Angela enters with Phillip] What is going on?

Angela: Daycare won't take Phillip anymore.

Oscar: Why?

Angela: Apparently my station in life has descended to a depth even they won't forgive. So, hi.

Oscar: Hi, buddy.

Dwight: Ok. Um, new agenda item. Phillip will be joining us in the office today.

Jim: Gotta write that down. Ok, big day today. Airing of the documentary. Who's excited?

Meredith: I'd better come out of this smelling like a rose. I've been on my best behavior for nine years. If it wasn't for the cameras, I would've done some truly vulgar crap.

Stanley: Over the course of this documentary I've had three affairs. If you find my body in a ditch, let me save the police some trouble: my wife did it.

Dwight: I'm letting you all off half an hour early to view the documentary. So you can make it up to me by working an extra half an hour tomorrow, or a minute extra for the rest of the month.

Kevin: Ooh, announcement! Some of us whose televisions got broken during an all-you-can-eat shrimp commercial will be watching tonight at Poor Richard's. But note, all are welcome, not just those whose saw an all-you-can-eat shrimp commercial and charged their televisions.

Oscar: I can't believe the doc is finally going to air. When this thing started, I was still having s*x with women. As was Kevin, I believe.

Creed: This airs tonight? Oh my god. If my parents see this, I am toast.

Andy: This is really huge. This is like the March on Washington but for a singing show. Can you imagine if Martin Luther King were here? And sang "I Dreamed a Dream" from Les Mis? With that baritone? That would be historic.

Casey: Whoo-hoo! Casey Dean! Cincinnati, Ohio! [singing] Doctor, doctor, gimme the news, I got a great Casey Dean for you.

Andy: No!

Casey: America wants it!

Andy: No, this is my time! You don't belt on my time! I belt on my time.

Casey: [singing] Casey Dean!

Andy: [vocalizing over her] Casey Dean!

Casey: Man, those are some nice pipes.

Andy: Yeah.

Casey: What's your name?

Andy: Andy. What's yours?

Angela: Why didn't you pack the apple snacks?

Oscar: Why didn't you pack the apple snacks?

Kevin: Guys.

Angela: Because whenever I pack the bag, you say I do it wrong.

Kevin: Guys.

Angela: Why don't you pack it?

Kevin: Guys.

Angela & Oscar: Kevin, what?

Kevin: Do you want to see a video of a weatherman who says "bold front" instead of "cold front"? It's insane.

Angela: Not now, Kevin. Can't you see we're busy? Phillip needs his apple snacks.

Oscar: Seriously, Kevin. I'm just gonna have to go to the store.

Angela: Ok, you go to the store.

Kevin: Philllip, Phillip, Phillip. It's all about Phillip. I hate Phillip.

Dwight: Not now! Private time!

Jim: I love Star Wars as much as the next guy—

Dwight: Hey, hey! Seriously? [holds up Battlestar Galactica model box]

Jim: My god, I'm so sorry. Well this might make up for it: I think I have found an enormous source of overlooked PFN.

Dwight: Which is, of course...

Jim: Potential future nonsense.

Dwight: Yes, good abbreviating, Jim. That saved some time. Now, hurry up, shut the door. Break it down for me.

Jim: I'm gonna need you to look at your hierarchy mobile. You've got a regional manager.

Dwight: The power source.

Jim: Obviously, the assistant to the regional manager.

Dwight: A loyal, but bungling apostle.

Jim: But what about the assistant assistant to the regional manager?

Dwight: Someone to whisper in the ear of the consigliore.

Jim: Exactly.

Dwight: I'd have to get some more wire and string, but it's doable. Do you think any of them out there are capable?

Jim: Yeah, right. I mean, unless they're willing to pass some tests.

Dwight: I like the sound of that. Who do you have in mind?

Jim: Well, I know this sounds crazy, but how would King Arthur choose the next knight of his round table?

Dwight: That doesn't sound crazy, Jim. That's the sanest thing I've ever heard.

Casey: What're you listening to?

Andy: Hmm? Um, uh, locking in my starting note. A 440.

Casey: Oh, sweet.

Andy: A cappella is all about pitch, and I am nothing if not a total pitch bitch.

Mark McGrath: What's up, everybody? And welcome to America's Next A Cappella Singing Sensation!

Casey: Ah! It's Mark McGrath! Oh my god! You're gorgeous!

Mark McGrath: Thank you, thank you so much. And thank you for your patience. And we hope to see you guys within the next five to seven hours. Now, just to give you a couple parameters of the show, each of you will sing a song for thirty seconds, after which our judges will decide if they want you in their a cappella group. Now, each group will start with 90 singers, which will compete in a series of singing and physical challenges. Oh, and look out for that pesky mole!

Andy: There's a mole?

Mark McGrath: Oops. I'm not supposed to—I'm not supposed to say that. All right, no mole. Forget I said it, all right?

Andy: What mole? What are you talking about? I already forgot about it.

Mark McGrath: Good man right there. I'll see you guys inside. Good luck, all right?

Andy: Yeah! Pour some Sugar Ray on me!

Casey: What? On a roll much?

Andy: I don't know where it came from.

Casey: That was amazing, man!

Andy: Yeah. Yeah, it felt good. It felt funny.

Casey: Yeah, you made a personal connection with him.

Andy: I did, I felt it.

Casey: Big time.

Pam: What are you so excited about?

Jim: Nothing.

Pam: What are you up to?

Jim: Members of the office, hear ye.

Dwight: That means ye, Plop!

Pete: Plop? Still?

Dwight: We owe Andy that much. Am I right people?

Pete: Fine.

Jim: Today we will be testing candidates for the position of assistant to the assistant to the regional manager.

Erin: Aw, heck ya!

Pam: Nice.

Dwight: You'll always have the upper hand, when you've got a good a-arm. Trademark pending.

Jim: This is not an excuse to blow off work doing carnival-like activities. Sure, every participant will be getting a corndog, but that's for fueling only. No savoring.

Dwight: Wow, the honor. God, I envy them.

Jim: He envies you.

Dwight: You don't need to repeat right now, when I'm saying it.

Jim: Alright.

Jim: By 2:00, Dwight will chose himself to be assistant to his own assistant, me.

Darryl: What up?

Glenn: What's going on? How was the delivery?

Darryl: Delivered all my furniture to Philly. Hey, keep it down, though. Nobody knows I'm here.

Darryl: I hate goodbyes, so last week, when I left Dunder Mifflin for good, I pulled the old Irish Exit. Just slipped out without making a big deal. No hard feelings. No feelings at all.

Jim: A good assistant knows what their superior is thinking before they even think it. Meredith, what number am I thinking of right now?

Meredith: Uh, two.

Jim: 985,000,000,000,017.

Dwight: Not even close, Meredith. Come on!

Jim: Okay, Pam. What song is running through my head right now?

Pam: Theme song from Saved by the Bell.

Jim: Oh, my god! It was the theme song to Boy Meets World.

Dwight: Wait, no, no, no, stop. Spouses can read each other's minds. You're trying to give your wife this job.

Jim: That's exactly what I was doing. Plop, what animal am I picturing?

Pete: A horse.

Jim: Ew, the exact opposite, actually.

Pete: What's the opposite of a horse?

Jim: Come on.

Jim & Dwight: Sea horse.

Jim: Whoa. How did you know that I was gonna—

Jim & Dwight: Say that? Uncanny.

Jim: Challenge number two, protocol. Clark?

Clark: Yeah.

Jim: Do you want a corn dog?

Clark: I would love a corn dog.

Jim: We'll see. You are an assistant who's just gotten a phone message. I am in a meeting with Dwight, Robert Dunder, and his niece. Uh-oh, look who came to join us. The Turkish ambassador to Armenia, Yuri Slovak, who, by the way, is extremely embarrassed about the size of his nose. Go ahead and read that phone message.

Clark: [reading] Mr. Halpert, your wife called to find out how your meeting with Yuri Big Nose went."

Dwight: No, no, no, no! You don't read it aloud like that! God! Besides, the whole thing is a trick question. There's no Turkish ambassador to Armenia. The two countries don't have diplomatic relations.

Jim: Uncanny.

Soldier: I just hope that if my buddies who are still in Afghanistan see me win, they'll feel like anything is possible.

Andy: Great, more screen time for the war vet. All you gotta do is risk your life for this country and everyone goes gaga for you.

Casey: Over at the porta-potties, they were interviewing a homeless, single mother with three kids.

Andy: What?

Casey: Yeah.

Andy: Is this a show about the resiliency of the human spirit? Or is it a show about singing?

Casey: I don't know. But I'm getting really worried here.

Andy: Me too. Hold my place in line.

Casey: Where are you going?

Andy: They want feel-good stories? Wait until they get a good feel of me.

Darryl: Thanks, man.

Hank: Thank you.

Darryl: Yep. Take care.

Pam: Darryl, hey.

Darryl: Hey.

Pam: Cool, are you coming back to say hi?

Darryl: No, no, I'm not here actually. These donuts are part of my escape from the guys at the warehouse I didn't say goodbye to.

Pam: Aha. How's Athlead?

Darryl: We livin' like rock stars. I'm about to eat free steaks with my sports heroes in 32 different cities.

Pam: Wow.

Darryl: Jim really doesn't want to come?

Pam: He says he doesn't want to.

Darryl: Wow. Man. I hope he doesn't regret it.

Pam: Well, he seems really happy being back here at Dunder Mifflin.

Darryl: Jim is happy here, selling paper at Dunder Mifflin?

Pam: That's what he says.

Darryl: If you say so. Hey, good seeing you. Remember, I was never here. All right, then.

Jim: An assistant brings their boss coffee with speed and dexterity. But an assistant to the assistant has a thousand times more to prove, am I right?

Dwight: A thousand times more.

Phyllis: I'll try this one.

Jim: Phyllis! Grab both these coffees, double-fist it, and head through this obstacle course.

Phyllis: [grabbing the coffee] Hot!

Jim: Yeah. It's real. It's the only way you'll learn. OK, and go ahead. [Phyllis carefully makes her way through the obstacle course] Oh, god, nice! She's through the green, everybody. Here comes yellow, real doozy. Careful!

Dwight: [over Jim] No, no, no! Phyllis, seriously?

Jim: Look at that form.

Dwight: [running over and taking the coffee cups from Phyllis] Oh, god, this is pathetic! The boss needs his coffee! [races through obstacles, spilling coffee] Augh! Ah! Here you are, sir! Here's your coffee! Ah, my skin, ow, ow! It burns! Ah!

Jim: Uncanny. [everyone applauds]

Erin: Darryl?! Darryl!

Kevin: Whoa.

Darryl: Oh, hey. Hey, what's up, y'all?

Erin: You left us without saying goodbye.

Darryl: Oh, my bad. Goodbye, everybody.

Meredith: Hey! No way!

Kevin: That's totally uncool.

Erin: Are you kidding? You broke our hearts. Get upstairs.

Darryl: I don't think I sh-

Erin: Get upstairs, mister!

Meredith: Yeah!

Kevin: Right. Now.

Darryl: Guess I'm going upstairs.

Jim: You know, Dwight, this whole search for the assistant thing—none of these people are good enough.

Dwight: I know.

Jim: What I'm about to say makes no logical sense, and yet, it might be the most logical thing I've ever said.

Dwight: Jim, this is gonna come as no surprise but I know exactly what you are going to say. The only possible assistant to my assistant-

Jim: Is-

Dwight: Me.

Jim: The new assistant to the assistant to the regional manager is Dwight K. Schrute.

Dwight: Yes! [weak applause] Thank you.

Jim: I think you might want to kneel for this. And yet, the manager for Dunder Mifflin kneels for no one. [Dwight awkwardly squats] That's it. You look really, really good.

Dwight: Okay, from now on, anyone who needs to speak to me has got to go through me first, all right?

Jim: Hey.

Pam: Hey.

Jim: You all right? What's going on?

Pam: Are you happy?

Jim: Yes, I'm happy.

Pam: No, I know that you're, like, happy and, like, you had fun today.

Jim: Yeah.

Pam: And that was fun. But what about a year from now?

Jim: What?

Pam: What about five years from now?

Jim: Pam.

Pam: Because I'm so glad you're back, baby, but I'm just—I was talking to Darryl, and he was talking about the trip, and I just feel like you're giving up so much.

Jim: This was my decision, not yours.

Pam: Okay.

Jim: You didn't force me.

Pam: I kind of forced you to do it.

Jim: You did not force me to do this.

Pam: Yes, I did.

Jim: I don't know how else to tell you.

Pam: I'm afraid that you're gonna resent me and I'm afraid that—

Jim: Resent you?

Pam: This is not enough for you and I'm afraid that I'm not enough for you.

Jim: Is that really what you think?



Jim: Not enough? I don't know how else to explain it to her, so, you know what? I know it's against the rules but I'm gonna need a favor from you guys.

Camera Crew: Okay. You got it, man.

Darryl: I didn't realize we were this close.

Phyllis: We're all a little hormonal with the doc airing.

Meredith: Are you gonna come to Poor Richard's and watch with us tonight?

Darryl: Uh... yeah. Depending on traffic.

Stanley: He ain't coming.

Erin: Oh, god!

Darryl: These dudes are definitely in a weird mood. Picked the wrong day to return a truck.

Darryl: Well, it's been great.

Phyllis: Eleven years. A guy is in your life for 11 years and then he's gone for who knows how long.

Darryl: Maybe forever. Anyhow—

Oscar: Did we ever have lunch together, just—just the two of us? You know what, I'm gonna make reservations right now at Cugino's.

Meredith: Question for Darryl. Did we ever get loaded and listen to Zeppelin in my van?

Darryl: Oh, oh, I'm sure we did.

Meredith: Nah, I call one hour van time with Darryl.

Clark: Darryl, you know, I would love to just record some of your stories, just let the tape roll for six or eight or ten hours and just see what we get.

Erin: Listen guys, we can do it all. We just have to divide Darryl's next 12 hours into 90-minute segments. I will go watch an eHow video on how to use Excel, and then we'll get this started.

Darryl: Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Wait a minute. Okay, I made the mistake of sneaking out of here and that's on me. But I'm not gonna spend the rest of the day here doing stuff with you cause you're feeling sentimental.

Meredith: You have to! [everyone grumbling]

Darryl: Hey, hey, hey. I'll do one thing with y'all.

Phyllis: Which thing?

Darryl: I don't care, choose amongst yourselves. Not the van though.

Angela: Kevin, Kevin.

Kevin: Oh, you know my name. Well, that is shocking. [continues making noise]

Angela: Kevin, could you not do that?

Kevin: What? I'm moving the ink down in my pen, for work.

Oscar: Here, use my pen.

Kevin: Don't tell me what to do!

Angela & Oscar: Shhh!

Kevin: No, I don't need this! And you obviously don't need me.

Angela: Kevin, where are you going?

Kevin: Away. Tell Phillip that his stupid little baby wish came true.

Oscar: He just won't go down. It's as if he's excited by all this paper.

Angela: I know. Earlier today he tried to eat some of the 24-weight letter bond.

Dwight: Smart baby. That's the most flavorful bond.

Andy: Hey, what's goin' on over here? Some sort of singing competition for the young'uns?

Casey: You're back!

Andy: No, it's me, Andy!

Casey: No, I know.

Andy: No, no, no. I'm wearing makeup.

Casey: You did a really great job. You even look shorter.

Andy: Oh, I took out my lifts.

Casey: Oh.

Andy: Yeah, unlike Andy Bernard, this character is my real height.

Casey: Oh.

Esther: All day long, it's moo the cows and cluck the hens. Get the sheep baa-ed. Oink the pigs.

Dwight: Oink the pigs, that is very important. [watching Phillip]

Esther: Dwight, I'm telling you about all the things that ma said after the horse kicked her in the head. Where are you? Dwight?

Dwight: The way that boy looks at the Galactica is precisely the way I look at the Galactica. And he eats the same kind of paper I do. Hmm.

Dwight: [puts his grandmother's ring away] Thank you, Esther.

Esther: Bye.

[Dwight throws "Now" beanie at Jim's head]

Jim: You threw the summoning bag at me, sir?

Dwight: I need you to perform a test.

Jim: Perform a test.

Dwight: On an innocent baby.

Jim: Ooh, I like where this is going. Unfortunately I have a lot of work today so I'm gonna have to hand this off to my number two. But, don't worry, he's the best in the biz.

Dwight: Damn straight.

Jim: Unless you think he can't handle it.

Dwight: Hey, he can handle it.

Jim: All right.

Oscar: [holding Phillip] Listen, listen. Shh, buddy. Stanley's sleeping. You don't want to wake up the grumpy old walrus, do you?

Stanley: I heard that.

Phillip: Mama.

Dwight: Hey, you want me to take the little diaper blaster? Pam can attest, there's no one better at getting brats to shut their yaps.

Pam: He does have a gift.

Oscar: Well, he's calling for his mom, but, okay, here, here you go. Careful, he bites.

Phillip: Mama.

Dwight: Okay. [takes Phillip who immediately stops crying] You ever been in a manager's office before?

Dwight: Phillip, you wanna play a little game? It's called "Schrute or Consequences." You're gonna choose one of these two things. A check for a million dollars, or this dirty old beet. Yuck, pew! Which will it be? Money or the beet?

Phillip: Beet.

Dwight: Yeah. Any ordinary child would have taken the money, but you're no ordinary child are you? No. I can tell by your gorgeous, widely-set eyes.

Check-in guy: Sorry, folks, the judges are totally swamped. We are all done taking auditions.

People in line: Oh come on! Hey!

Andy: Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, what?

Check-in guy: But thanks for coming out and be sure to watch America's Next A Cappella Sensa—

Andy: Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. You can't do that. You can't do that, we've all been waiting.

Check-in guy: Okay.

Andy: I am going in there! Don't—

Check-in guy: No, you're not, sir.

Andy: Don't—don't—

Check-in guy: Please don't.

Andy: Don't touch me.

Check-in guy: I'm not touching you. Okay? [Andy makes a break for it]

Casey: Run, old man! Run! Run! Run for your life! Get off. Don't you dare. Don't get—I could see it. You were gonna get handsy with me. Not interested. I'm Casey Dean! You'll be seeing the last of me. Er, I meant you won't be seeing the last of me!

Oscar: Hey. Did you manage to feed him? I don't know what it is. He just keeps spitting out the nipple.

Dwight: That is because this baby is of superior intelligence. He can tell when he's being tricked out of the experience of a real human breast.

Kevin: He's not that smart. He doesn't know where I hid his duck.

Andy: [interrupting contestant singing "Beautiful" by Christina Aguilera] Hi. You're still here. Oh, thank god. Clay Aiken, Santigold, Aaron Rodgers. You're like, my three favorite people ever.

Santigold: What is this?

Andy: [shushing contestant] Sweetheart, you're amazing, okay? You're obviously gonna be on the show, so it's someone else's turn now. Yeah, go ahead. All right, [old man voice] my name is Ezra Cornell and I'm just a kindly old fellow with a song in my heart.

Aaron Rodgers: No, you're a middle-aged man with a lot of makeup on.

Andy: Busted. Yes, got it. All right. Tried to get your attention with tricks, but you just want to hear me sing, I respect that.

Clay Aiken: No, we do not want to hear you sing.

Santigold: Gabriella was our last audition. Thank you. Goodbye.

Andy: Nope! Can't end like this. Slept in my car last night, quit my job, burned all my bridges. I went to the bathroom on my boss's car. And I did unspeakable things with Carla Fern.

Aaron Rodgers: Flag on the play.

Andy: That's—that's what—yeah. Okay, all right, well, here's the song. [singing] Far above Cayuga's waters, with her waves so blue, stands our noble alma mater—

Santigold: What is this song?

Andy: Are you insane? It's the Cornell fight song.

Clay Aiken: Listen, all right, thank you very much, we're not interested.

Andy: You didn't let me finish. That's not fair.

Aaron Rodgers: Look, man, you're not terrible. We've heard a lot of really good singers today and you're just not good enough.

Andy: Wow, you guys are really mean. I guess that's the show. Let me try a different song, okay?

Aaron Rodgers: Can he do this?

Andy: [singing] Hey, hobo man, hey, dapper Dan, you both got your style, but, brother, you're never fully dressed without a smile. [falters at the judges' reactions] Yeah. Your clothes may be beau brummelly—

Santigold: Look, you gotta go. [Andy falls to his knees, sobbing] You can't just sit here and cry.

Andy: Oh I can so just sit here and cry!

Jim: [addressing camera after opening envelope on his desk] Thank you.

Oscar: Hey, Kev, how you doing, buddy?

Kevin: Can't hear you. I'm giving you the silence treatment. How does it feel being ignored?

Oscar: Okay, I guess, it's just that Phillip got you something.

Angela: Yeah, a $25 gift card, iTunes.

Oscar: I think there's, like, $7 left.

Angela: It's just his way of saying, "Thanks for letting me hang out in Accounting."

Kevin: Phillip got this for me?

Oscar: Sure.

Kevin: That was a really cool move.

Angela: Would you like to hold Phillip? [hands off Phillip] Yeah. That's Kevin.

Kevin: Whoa.

Oscar: Easy.

Kevin: What a chubbers. Whoa.

Angela: Okay, watch it.

Kevin: I'm losing my balance.

Angela: No, Kevin, no.

Oscar: Hey, no.

Kevin: Whoa!

Oscar: No horseplay.

Angela: Stop it.

Kevin: You wanna play with the cactus?

Angela: No, no!

Kevin: So, me and Phillip were just talking and we decided we're gonna be best friends. He's a little standoffish at first. But once he starts buying you things, man, you can tell he likes you.

Erin: We have our decision.

Darryl: You chose one thing?

Erin: We want to dance with you.

Darryl: You want to dance?

Erin: One dance, all of us together.

Darryl: This is what you want?

Erin: Absolutely.

Darryl: Better get some decent speakers up here then, cause we're gonna do this right.

Erin: Yes! [Stanley, Creed, Meredith and Creed all cheer]

Angela: Hey. You wanted to see me?

Dwight: Door. Chair. It's about Phillip.

Angela: I am sorry he's here today but I had—

Dwight: I believe that boy may be a Schrute. And if he is, that child needs to be accorded what is his. An enormous farm, an inheritance, and the right to be raised under rigorous Schrute traditions. You will, of course, be compensated with a marriage proposal.

Angela: How thoughtful.

Dwight: Then the two of you would move to my 1,600-acre estate, which, let's face it, is a big step up from living in a gay man's closet.

Angela: If he is your son, that's a great plan. But he's not. He's not your son.

Dwight: Very well.

Angela: Can I go back to my desk now?

Dwight: Yes.

Pam: What is this?

Jim: Well I've been trying to tell you how I feel, and you wouldn't believe me, so [shows her DVD] I needed a little help.

Dwight: Jim! I need my assistant to the regional manager. Code red.

Jim: OK, I don't have my pocket code chart on me, right now, so.

Dwight: [throws "now" beanbag at Jim] Now.

Jim: I have an assistant now, who can help you with whatever you need. He is lazy, so crack the whip.

Dwight: Jim. I'm not kidding. I need you.

Pam: Go ahead.

Jim: Ok, um, this is... [leaves DVD with her]—I'll be right back.

Jim: What do we got?

Dwight: I was thinking of proposing to Esther today.

Jim: Wow! Congratulations, that's a really big step.

Dwight: She's got a ton of great qualities. She's young, she's beautiful, genes so pure you could lick them. Her family admires me, my family tolerates hers. A lot of them are the same people because we're third cousins, which is great for bloodlines and isn't technically incest.

Jim: Right in the sweet spot. I think you're gonna be really happy.

Dwight: Plus her dowry contains a walk-in freezer full of frozen, premium cattle sperm.

Jim: [whistles] That's a lot of pros.

Dwight: And did I mention that she weaves? Colorful, durable blankets and rugs! It all adds up.

Jim: So what is the problem?

Dwight: Angela.

[Pam hesitates but puts the DVD into the laptop to watch]

Jim: I don't know what you want me to tell you, man. All I know is that every time I've been faced with a tough decision, there's only one thing that outweighs every other concern. One thing that will make you give up on everything you thought you knew, every instinct, every rational calculation.

Dwight: Some sort of virus?

Jim: Love.

Dwight: Oh.

[Pam starts the video; title screen reads "Beesly—You think I'll have regrets. I asked the doc crew to help me show you why I won't..."; highlights of Pam and Jim from the documentary play over Snow Patrol's "Open Your Eyes"]

Jim: Dwight, listen: no matter what happens, you gotta forget about all the other stuff. You gotta forget about logic and fear and doubt. You just gotta do everything you can to get to the one woman who's gonna make all this worth it. At the end of the day, you gotta jump. You love Angela, Dwight. I think you always have.

Dwight: You're a good assistant, Jim.

Jim: Not as good as you.

Dwight: That's very true. Get the hell outta here.

Jim: You got it.

[video shows teapot clip from "Christmas Party"; Pam notices the card that Jim took back]

Jim: You watched it.

Pam: Yeah.

Jim: Well, then I guess you're ready for this. [gives her the Christmas card]

Pam: What's that?

Jim: It's from the teapot. Everything you'll ever need to know is in that note. [Pam reads the card] Not enough for me? You are everything.

Pam: Thank you.

Erin: Ok, everybody ready?

Phyllis: Hit it, red! ["Boogie Wonderland" by Earth Wind & Fire plays as Darryl dances with each member of the office]

Darryl: I wanted to leave quietly. It seemed dignified. But having Kevin grind up on my front while Erin pretends to hump me from behind is a more accurate tribute to my years here. I'm gonna miss these guys.

Oscar: Ok, I've got my—

Meredith: See you guys at Poor Richard's, all right?

Oscar: All right, Meredith.

Angela: Okay, bye.

Oscar: See you there.

Kevin: Bye, Phillip. High five.

Oscar: Yay! I am gonna drop Phillip off at my mother's, and I'll meet you at Poor Richard's in an hour.

Angela: Are you sure you don't want me to drop him off?

Oscar: She doesn't know I'm living with a straight woman. I don't want to get her hopes up.

Angela: All right. Bye, buddy. Bye, bye, bye!

Oscar: Oh, my goodness.

Dwight: [in bullhorn] Pull over!

Angela: Dwight?

Dwight: Move to the side of the road!

Angela: Why?

Dwight: Pull over!

Angela: What do you—Dwight! [Dwight cuts her off in his car, they pull over]

Angela: [getting out of her car] Dwight! What the [bleep] is your problem!

Dwight: [on bullhorn still] Shut up, woman!

Angela: Who drives like that?

Dwight: Listen to me! I love you! And I don't care that Phillip's not my son. I will raise 100 children with 100 of your lovers if it means that I can be with you!

Angela: Can you put that down?

Dwight: This expresses how loudly I love you.

Angela: It's too loud.

Dwight: [puts down bullhorn and kneels] This is a ring, taken from the buttocks of my grandmother, put there by the gangster patriarch of the Coors dynasty, melted in a foundry run by Mennonites.

Angela: Okay, yes—yes, I will! [they kiss] I love you!

Dwight: I love you!

Angela: And I lied to you.

Dwight: What?

Angela: Phillip's your son.

Dwight: What? Why would you say that—

Angela: I just needed you to want to marry me because you wanted to marry me.

Dwight: [excited] Get out! I'm a dad!

Angela: You're a dad!

Creed: Hey, grab a seat. We have that table and that table, but not that table or that table or that table. Floor's up for grabs. Meredith has been hogging the can. [Dwight kisses Creed's head] Oh!

Erin: You have to change the channel to PBS.

Kevin: Yeah.

Bartender: College baseball is on.

Erin: But there's a documentary coming up. Everyone in the bar will love it.

Bartender: What's it about?

Erin: A paper company.

Bartender: How many people want the game? [half the bar cheers] Who wants PBS? [other half cheers] Sorry. Tie means I do nothing.

Kevin: Sir, please. This show is about me and my attempts to find love in all the wrong places.

Andy: One more for the doc. [the office staff cheers]

Bartender: All right.

Kevin: Yes!

Clark: Hey, how was the singing show audition?

Andy: Oh. Eh, whatever. No big deal.

Creed: Ok, thirty seconds to showtime!

Kevin: I feel scared a little.

Phyllis: Yeah, I'm not ready for this.

Stanley: No one is ready for this. You can't be ready for this. We don't even know what this is.

Oscar: One thing we do know, nothing will ever be the same.

Jim: Here we go. [documentary starts with the first scene of "Pilot"]



Phyllis: Whoo! Wow, it is raining cats and dogs out there. Holy moley.

Jim: Phyllis says the same twelve clichés every time it rains. So, I promised everyone that if she says them all by noon today, I will send out for hot chocolates.

Darryl: So how was the drive in?

Phyllis: Oh, nobody knows how to drive in the rain.

Darryl: You don't say?

Phyllis: Yeah. You know the roads are actually the slickest in the first half hour?

Phyllis: Oh, the plants are gonna love this.

Oscar: Yeah.

Phyllis: I actually sleep better when it's raining.

Meredith: Tell me about it.

Oscar: Time's almost up. How many are left?

Pam: Just one. "This weather makes me want to stay at home, curled up with a good book."

Darryl: Phyllis. This rain... does it make you wanna be doing something?

Phyllis: What do you mean?

Pam: You know, like aren't some things just so nice and cozy in the rain?

Jim: Hey, come on.

Phyllis: Lots of things are cozy in the rain.

Jim: And that's noon. Exactly. [others groan]

Phyllis: I mean, normally the rain would make me want to stay home, curled up with a good book. But everybody's being so nice to me today. I'm really happy being here.

Andy: [singing] My girlfriend's back and there's gonna be trouble-

Andy & Erin: Hey la, hey la...

Andy: ...my girlfriend's back!

Erin: [simultaneously] ...his girlfriend's back! [others cheer and applaud]

Andy: Anyway, I know it's the end of the day. We just wanted to stop by and say hi.

Kevin: Welcome home.

Erin: Thank you.

Andy: Hey, Kev.

Kevin: Yeah.

Andy: Nice sweater.

Kevin: [wearing a Cornell sweater] Thank you. Nellie was nice enough to give it to me. She's sweet. I just wish there was pockets.

Andy: What happened to old salty?

Dwight: Nellie let me bobble-ize him. His name is now Captain Mutato.

Dwight: I've written quite a bit of X-Men fan fiction. Captain Mutato is half man, half mermaid. So he can fight crime as a man and make love as a mermaid. Most of my writing involves the latter.

Andy: Okey dokey. [knocks on door]

Nellie: Yes?

Andy: Whoa. Well, you must be the famous Nellie Bertram I've been hearing all about. I am the famous Andy Bernard you've been hearing all about.

Nellie: Oh yes.

Andy: I just want to thank you for jumping in and minding the store during my temporary absence.

Nellie: You are most welcome.

Andy: Anyway, now that I'm back, I would love to have my office back, whenever you get a chance.

Nellie: No.

Andy: Obviously, we'll figure out the, uh, logistics of moving all this stuff out of here. But, you know, the sooner the better.

Nellie: Mm-hmm.

Andy: Get back to normalcy.

Nellie: Hmm, no.

Ravi: ...and then just lay him in his crib, and then bicycle his legs. And then after Jim quiets down, you do the same thing with your baby. [Pam, Jim and Kelly laugh] But if he keeps having problems, just give me a call.

Pam: Oh my gosh, thank you so much. But seriously, we don't want to bother you any more than we already have.

Jim: That's it.

Kelly: It's no bother, you guys are our friends.

Pam: Ravi, our amazing pediatrician, was asking us if we knew any girls and I said I know the perfect girl.

Jim: Yep. Because Kelly is Indian and... oh, that's it.

Pam: Race had nothing to do with it. I just knew they'd be good together.

Pam: [talks over flashbacks] Kelly has been a handful in the past.

Kelly: [cries, slams fist on desk] Why?

Pam: [Ryan and Kelly make out in the nook] But she's had a bad influence. She's like an addict. [Ryan and Kelly argue] And I just had to get her clean.

Kevin: [Ryan and Kelly make out on Oscar's desk] Get lower.

Ryan: Um, also, little tip, never shake the baby.

Jim: Sorry, just to be clear, you're saying do NOT shake the baby.

Ryan: Don't shake the baby. Um, a lot of times, parents get frustrated 'cause the baby's crying and they shake the baby. And you got to, um, you can't do that.

Pam: Don't shake our baby?

Ryan: Yeah.

Pam: Okay. I'd never heard that before. So, thank you.

Ryan: Oh, my God.

Pam: Yeah, I'm glad you said something.

Ryan: Me too.

Ryan: Kelly and I broke up and she can do whatever she wants. And her new boyfriend seems awesome, if you're into Indian people. I'm not.

Ryan: Hey, um, what's the deal with this guy? He's really into Kelly, huh?

Pam: Yeah, they're really great together.

Ryan: Maybe we weren't right together, but... it's weird. I'd rather she be alone than with somebody. Is that love?

Jim: That's about it, yeah.

Robert: Nellie! You've been terrific in your interim capacity. But, Andrew is the rightful manager so if you would just give him his office-

Nellie: No.

Robert: I'm sorry?

Andy: This is what I was trying to tell you.

Robert: I'm not accustomed to people saying no to me. [laughs]

Nellie: Well, Bobby, get accustomed to it because then it feels so good when they finally say yes.

Robert: You're both adults. I'm sure you can figure this out between yourselves.

Robert: I never allow sexual desire to influence a business decision. So I find it best to excuse myself temporarily until I've had a chance to make love and then go back and analyze the situation rationally. Buffett operates the same way.

Nellie: I'm gonna count down from five and if you are not out of my office, I'm going to dock your pay one hundred dollars.

Andy: [chuckling] Okay.

Nellie: Five... four...

Andy: You can't dock my pay-

Nellie: Angela! Dock Andy's pay one hundred dollars.

Angela: On it!

Andy: Great. Five, four, three, two, one. Angela, please dock Nellie's pay a hundred dollars. Angela?

Nellie: Do you want to go again?

Andy: Angela?

Nellie: Let's go again. Five... four...

Andy: Ooh, she's counting again.

Nellie: Three... two... one...

Andy: Oh, oh!

Nellie: Angela, two hundred dollars!

Angela: You got it.

Andy: Seriously, Angela?

Andy: I got a little bit of an anger problem. Got me in some trouble a couple years ago.

Erin: When I see him start to get mad, I just put my hand on his arm like this.

Nellie: I know what, let's go... ten thousand dollars! [Andy laughs] Five... four...

Andy: You're just saying numbers. It's meaningless.

Nellie: Three...

Andy: It's literally like-

Nellie: Two... [Andy runs out of the room] one.

Erin: There you go. [helps Andy in the car] Hey. we're gonna have a nice, hot date.

Erin: Hey. So last night was so not a big deal.

Andy: Oh, yeah, I was just tired.

Erin: We both were. Plus, I was definitely not my normal sexy self.

Andy: Whoa. No. Are you kidding? You were so sexy. Just the thought of you last night, like, crazy turns me on. It just didn't last night.

Erin: Really. It's not a big deal.

Andy: Yeah. I know it's not... a big deal.

Ryan: I found this the other day while I was journaling and they reminded me of you.

Kelly: Oh, those are from our weekend at the time share.

Ryan: Yeah, the fractional ownership property. [sigh] Oh, we took this one right before we got in that huge fight.

Kelly: God I don't even remember what that fight was about.

Ryan: You were being really bratty about where we would go out to dinner. But all I remember is how pretty you looked, taking those pictures of me. Anyway, if you want to order prints of your own, I can send you the link.

Ryan: I'm in love with Kelly Kapoor. And I don't know how I'm gonna feel tomorrow or the next day or the day after that, but I do know that right here, right now, all I can think about is spending the rest of my life with her. Again, that could change.

Erin: When you lost the manager job-

Dwight: Yes?

Erin: Did it affect you outside of the office?

Dwight: How?

Erin: I don't know what the technical term is... Penial softiosis?

Dwight: Erin, I am so glad that you trusted me. You came to the exact right person for this. No, I have never once experienced anything remotely like that. Never.

Erin: Oh, okay.

Dwight: Okay?

Erin: Okay.

Dwight: Washington Monument.

Erin: Oh.

Dwight: Eiffel Tower.

Erin: Okay, okay.

Pam: I saw you were getting along with Ryan again.

Kelly: He's so sweet. He pointed to my latte and he said, "Kelly, that will be the color of our children."

Pam: Yeah, he's so great. Remember how it felt when he cheated on you though?

Kelly: Which time?

Pam: I am not going to let Kelly throw her life away on Ryan. And it has nothing to do with access to my pediatrician. Why you would even ask or were going to ask, because I- I felt like that question was coming.

Dwight: One of Toby's eyes is getting smaller. So there's that. Gabe bragged about having an extra ticket to the air show this weekend and Meredith said she was interested and then Gabe said immediately that his friend might be taking the ticket. So I'll keep you posted on that.

Dwight: Every day I brief Nellie on what's going on in the office. Most of it's irrelevant. But a good informer doesn't judge what's worth passing on.

Dwight: Oh, and Andy lost his masculinity, so congratulations on that.

Nellie: What do you mean?

Dwight: Erin made it clear to me that he was unable to perform sexually last night. By contrast, I went to sleep with an erection so large it was like I was wearing no blanket at all. Wow, I knew you'd win, but you just demolished him! I'm a little bit jealous, actually. Reduced him to a mere ant.

Nellie: I just wanted to take the man's job, not his manhood.

Nellie: Okay, I would like to invite everyone into the conference room.

Andy: You can't call a meeting. [laughs] But I would like to have a meeting in the conference room right now! So let's get in the conference room. Thank you. Good. Thank you for coming to my meeting.

Nellie: Okay, if you would like to take a seat we can get started.

Andy: Oh! Can't do it 'cause I gotta run a meeting. So.

Nellie: No.

Andy: Wanted to talk to all of you guys about [reads whiteboard] importance... and know that each and every one of you is vitally important.

Robert: Andrew, not everyone here is important. And the word is "impotence."

Nellie: Which is important in its own way. So if you'd just like to take a seat, Andy.



Nellie: "Take a man's job, but leave him his balls." Margaret Thatcher said that... probably. Don't know. Don't read. Didn't see the movie.

Nellie: This meeting is not about any one person in particular. It is a human problem.

Dwight: It's not just a human problem. Flounders frequently experience impotence, especially when converting from male to female and then back again to male.

Oscar: Nellie, does the person affected by this want us to help her in any way in particular?

Nellie: Oh, oh, it's not me. No, no. I've never had any problem in that arena. And I have been with several older men.

Robert & Creed: [in unison] How old?

Creed: Jinx. Buy me some Coke.

Nellie: Dwight told me about it earlier.

Erin: Dwight!

All: What?

Erin: You promised!

Kevin: Dwight couldn't get it up for Nellie?

Dwight: No, no, no, no, no, It's not me. I'm gonna prove it right here and now. [thrusts his pelvis]

Angela: What are you doing?

Oscar: What is this?

Angela: Stop that! Dwight! Stop that, stop it.

Andy: Fine, it was me. I couldn't- I had a problem with Erin last night. Happy?

Andy: I had a lot on my mind last night. And I didn't perform. Okay? It happens to plenty of guys. It's usually not followed by a giant workplace discussion and an interview.

Andy: Every guy in this room has been touched by this affliction. Tuna? T-dog?

Jim: Um...

Darryl: Uh... I have other issues. I'm terrible at math. Overweight. You- you're in great shape. A lot better shape than I am, tell you what.

Robert: It seems Andy is the only one with this problem. Fascinating.

Andy: Fascinating.

Gabe: I don't really see what the problem is. Erin doesn't even like s*x, remember? You said it feels like getting tackled by a skeleton.

Nellie: Chumbo, come on, help me out. Any problems with Little Chumbo?

Kevin: Tip-top shape.

Nellie: Oh... Stanley?

Stanley: No. Um-um.

Nellie: Creed, you are a thousand years old.

Creed: Haven't heard any complaints. Wouldn't care if I did.

Andy: Okay, so I-

Pam: Actually Andy, I think maybe we experienced it.

Jim: What happened?

Pam: That a couple of times-

Jim: Couple of times.

Robert: Jim, maybe you could tell us about one of those times.

Dwight: Yeah Jim.

Andy: Yeah Jim, get it out there.

Jim: Um... I don't... Uh, yes, that time that it was very late. Uh, we'd had s*x so many times already, I was exhausted...

Pam: Okay, stop.

Jim: I was very drunk.

Phyllis: If it makes you feel any better, I never had an orgasm until I was forty-two. And then when I did, it lasted 'til I was forty-four.

Phyllis: Forty-three was ju- I got nothing done. [laughs]

Gabe: I've read- and I don't know anything about this personally- but they say prostate stimulation can help.

Angela: Ugh.

Gabe: This is just, uh- This American Life, I think I heard it on.

Robert: No, that's absolutely the case.

Gabe: I know, right?

Dwight: You know, my rectal electro-ejaculator is rated for bovine use only but I could let you rent it.

Robert: Andy, why don't you tell us about the best erection of your life? Or does anyone else have any remarkable erections they'd like to share? [Creed, Kevin and Meredith raise their hands]

Kevin: Ooh, ooh!

Jim: Wow, what are we talking about?

Erin: Toby, doesn't HR have some rules against talking about this kind of stuff?

Toby: Erin, HR is a joke. I can't do anything about anything.

Nellie: The most important thing to remember is not to stress about this. Stress just makes it worse, and then you stress more. And that's a vicious spiral.

Robert: I almost didn't come in today. [laughs]

Andy: [on the phone] Dad, don't think of it as a demotion. Just think of it as a promotion to a lower level. I don't think you have to tell your friends anything. It hasn't been decided yet.

Nellie: Erin, on phone memos you're writing the date American style. Month, day, year. I prefer it day, month, year. Small, bigger, biggest. Oh, sexual innuendo. Not intentional.

Erin: Shut up. Shut up! I am sick of your dumb opinions. And if you don't like the way that I take phone messages, here! [throws phone] Take 'em yourself!

Andy: Oh, and another thing! Our s*x life is none of your businesses!

Erin: And Andy is the manager, not Nellie!

Andy: Stop protecting me! I'm a man- I can protect myself! This is misdirected anger and I'm sorry! I don't mean to lash out at you! There's a lot coming up right now, all at once! [into phone] Dad go to hell, I'm taller than you!

Nellie: Okay, just calm down.

Andy: You are not the manager. I earned that job. I was personally chosen after Robert was chosen and quit.

Robert: Andy, why don't you just take a seat?

Andy: Why don't you take a seat, you idiot? [throws chair]

Erin: And why don't you take all your stupid memos and your stupid pens and your dumb caramels?

Andy: And your stupid face! [grabs Nellie's photo off the wall and smashes it on the ground] And your stupid office! [punches hole in the wall] Ah!

Darryl: He does not like that wall.

Erin: Maybe we'll get sent to anger management together.

Andy: That would actually be cool. I'd love for you to meet some of the guys.

Robert: Andy, Erin, you can join us now.

Ryan: Hey, I hear you been bad-mouthing me to Kelly.

Pam: All I did was remind her that you used to treat her badly.

Ryan: Well that's your opinion and it's her opinion, but it's not my opinion. If you have something bad to say to me, Pam, say it to my face.

Pam: Fair enough. Um... I don't think you're a very good person. And forgive me, but I feel like I've said this to you before: I don't like you very much.

Ryan: Well a lot of people would say that I'm a better match for Kelly than Ravi is.

Oscar: Oh come on, Ryan. Really? Ravi's way better.

Ryan: For Kelly?

Kevin: Yeah. Man, you're insane right now. Ravi's the whole package.

Nate: I've never met Ravi personally, but I'm gonna go ahead and say, just having knowing you a short while, Brian, that I prefer Ravi. And again, I've never even met the guy.

Ryan: Kelly, I wrote you the most amazing love poem. But I can't even read it. My heart couldn't handle it.

Pam: Oh, no, no, no.

Oscar: Oh, come on.

Pam: Read it, please. I love amazing poetry.

Ryan: No. It would cause me too much pain.

Pam: Read through the pain. Be strong.

Ryan: This poem would crush you!

Oscar: Ryan, go away! She found herself a beautiful boyfriend!

Kevin: Yeah, man, he's absolutely gorgeous! Please leave her alone.

Ryan: You see, Kelly? Our love scares them. It screws up their cookie-cutter world.

Kelly: Ravi makes me incredibly happy. And Ryan puts me through so much drama. So I guess I just have to decide which of those is more important to me.

Robert: Andy, we're going to go with Nellie as manager and put you back on the sales team. I promise you, in time, we'll all laugh about this incident. I already think it's kind of funny. [chuckles]

Andy: No.

Robert: Excuse me?

Andy: I'm saying no.

Robert: Well you can't say no.

Andy: No.

Pam: [sees Ryan on the horse] Oh, boo! Boo! Boo to you! Boo!

Ryan: You are toxic! You are toxic!

Pam: Boo!

Jim: Hey, hey. Okay.

Ryan: Kelly, I have a few things to say to you, so please don't interrupt.

Kelly: I wasn't going to interrupt.

Ryan: Well you do a lot, so just don't. Thank you. I know that I haven't always treated you the way that you, for whatever reason, feel you deserve to be treated. But I want to marry you, Kelly Kapoor. Maybe not today, maybe not tomorrow, but someday, and probably.

Pam: Barf! Ugh, you suck!

Ryan: What is your problem? [to horse wrangler] Hey, hey, hey, can we turn this back around quickly, please? This is very important to me.

Wrangler: Turn around. Turn around. Turn around!

Ryan: Can we turn this [bleep]-ing thing around? Thank you.

Wrangler: She don't wanna turn around.

Ryan: Thank you. Kelly, I can't promise you that we'll always stay together. I can't promise you that I'll never cheat on you. Nor should I. Modern marriages aren't built that way. Men aren't built that way. There's a very interesting article I can email to you. But I can tell you this. Even if the odds are fifty-fifty that we'll break up within the week, I wanna roll those dice. I love you, Kelly.

Kelly: Ryan.

Ryan: Will you roll those dice with me?

Kelly: You mean so much to me. But, I love Ravi and I choose him.

Ryan: No you don't.

Kelly: I do.

Ryan: No you don't.

Kelly: I hope we can still be friends. Can I have a hug?

Ryan: What? [they hug]

Kelly: That was really cool. [they make out]

Angela: Ugh. Eww!

Jim: Well, it's good to see Kelly's maturing.

Angela: Oh God!

Robert: Look, Andrew, we can discuss the specifics of the job.

Andy: No.

Nellie: It's the apology. I really have to insist.

Andy: [British accent] No.

Nellie: Stop saying no.

Andy: No.

Robert: Andrew, if you say no one more time, you're fired. So... is there anything else you wanna say?

Andy: No.

Andy: I can't describe it. I just, for the first time in a long time, I actually feel in control. I feel... alive.

Erin: Here- [grabs the box Andy's holding]

Andy: Ah- da, da, da, da. I got it.

Erin: But you hurt your hand.

Andy: I... Got... It.

Erin: Right now?

Andy: Yes.

Pam: You're not the least bit curious to hear a poem straight from Ryan's soul?

Jim: Not at all, can we go?

Pam: "Kapoor and ka-desperate, he watches."

Jim: Second line.

Pam: "He is a drifter out to sea."

Jim: "And when the Indian Ocean calms, one speck of white remains in waters cold and Kelly green."

Pam: It's just so dumb. [chokes up] But when he describes himself as a child, lost on the life raft...

Jim: Uh, Ryan can never know.


Michael: [Talking head] Who am I? Am I Michael Scott? I don't know... I might just be a basketball machine. What's Dunder Mifflin? I've never heard of it. Filing? Paperwork? Who cares? Possible downsizing? Um... well, that's probably gonna happen, actually.

Michael: Oh yuck! That's even worse than you playing!

Pam: Please don't throw garbage at me.
Michael: Oh, Pam with a zinger!

Michael: [watching Stanley play basketball] What? You gotta be kidding me!

Michael: This is our warehouse or as I like to call it, the whorehouse! But, don't you call it that. I've earned the right.
Ryan: Fine, don't worry about that.

Michael: [discussing his basketball team] We have Ryan, the new guy, right? Untested, willing to prove himself right now, a lot of passion, lot of heart.
Ryan: But I'm getting paid to skip lunch, right?

Michael: And this is the foreman, Mr. Rogers!
Darryl: That's not my real name.
Michael: No, Darryl. Darryl is Mr. Rogers!
Ryan: Darryl Rogers?
Darryl: Darryl Philbin. Then Regis, then Reeg, then Roger, then Mr... Rogers.

Michael: The hand strikes and gives a flower.

Michael: Let's put together the starting line-up, shall we? Stanley, of course.
Stanley:: I'm sorry?
Michael: Um, what do you play? Center?
Stanley:: Why 'of course'? What's that supposed to mean?
Michael: I dunno... I don't remember saying that.
Jim: Uh, I heard it.
Michael: Well people hear a lot of things, man.

Michael: The great thing about sports is that it is all about character and you can learn lessons about life even if you don't win but we did because we were ahead.

Michael: [Talking head] Today at lunchtime we're going to be playing the warehouse staff at a friendly little game of basketball. My idea. Last time I was down there, I noticed they'd put up a couple of hoops, and I play basketball every weekend. So I thought, "This might be kinda fun." And so I started messing around and... I'm sinking a few, you know. Swish, swish, swish. Nothing but net. And their jaws just dropped to the floor. African-Americans! So... you know, it's really just a good friendly game, a reason to get together.

Dwight: So we need someone to work this Saturday and I think that should be...Jim.

Jim: God this is so sad. This is the smallest amount of power I've seen go to someone's head. Phyllis, can you believe this?

Phyllis: Keep me out of it.

Michael: [Talking head] Football is like rock and roll, it's just bam-bam-boo... And basketball is like jazz, you know? You're kind of... Dupee-doo, dupee-do. It's all downbeat, it's in the pocket, it's like... [singing] Dupee-do, dupee-do, dapee-dah...

Deleted Scenes
Michael: [Talking head] Do I have a nickname on the court, um? Well, The Answer would be nice, but it's taken. So, uh, probably The Question. The Answer dishes to The Question. The Question back to The Answer. Answer over to The Question. The Answer, whew, [makes shooting motion] three points. The Question, whew, whew, [makes shooting motion] six points. Nothing but net. Question, who's the best player in the league? Answer, The Question. Or the Drunkmeister.

Packer: [On phone] Mello

Michael: Packer. Pac-man

Packer: Whoa. Hey

Michael: Pac-man [Imitates Pac-man video game noises]

Packer: Is this Michael Scott? My secret lover, my intercom, I told you never to call me here. Never! [Michael laughs]

Michael: I'm not your lover. I'm not Michael Scott. I'm Dr. Bergerstein - Your proctologist.

Packer: Bergerstein!

Michael: Ah, yes, ah.[Laughs]

Packer: Bergerstein!

Michael: It's not a Jewish joke, so don't worry.

Packer: I want my money back, you greedy Hebrew. Bergerstein!

Michael: [clears throat] No, hey, hey , hey. You know what I just wanted to remind you about the game today. One 'o clock. Big game, big game

Packer: [sounds sick on the phone] I can't make it.

Michael: Mmm. No, you said you could man. We're counting on ya. You know you're playing point guard.

Packer:  I... I'm not coming.

Michael: No. Hey... I mean, although it's just for fun, you know we want... I was counting on you man. 

Packer: Oh, God! Stop whining. You know, you only come to the pick up game once a year. You little bitch.

Michael: [picks up phone, takes it off speakerphone] All right, yup. Hey, okay. No problem, you know, best you can do. Hey, you know. Hey, nice talking to you too. All right take care. [sighs] Michael Scott. That's funny. He's a good friend.

Michael: What happens to a company if somebody takes their boss away? I will answer your question with a question. It's like what happens to a chicken when you take its head away. It dies. Unless you find a new head. I need to see which one of these people have the skills to be a chicken head.

Michael: Jim Halpert. Pros: smart, cool, good-looking - remind you of anybody you know? Cons? Not a hard worker - I can spend all day on a project, and he will finish the same project in a half an hour, so that should tell you something...Dwight is an obvious candidate for my job. He has the best sales record in the office, he loves the work - he is, however, an idiot...I'm also considering Stanley, because of all the good that black people have done, for America...Andy Bernard. Pros: he's classy, he gets me, he went to Cornell, I trust him. Cons? I don't really trust him.

Stanley: I would rather work for an upturned broom, with a bucket for a head, than work with somebody else in this office besides myself - game on!

Oscar: If either of these guys are put in charge of the office, I will transfer to Albany. Gil can come if he wants - I'm kind of looking for a way out of that relationship anyway. I think I might try girls for a while - Angela thinks I can cross over.

Pam: Jim, I called off my wedding because of you...and now we're not even friends. And things are just, like, weird between us, and that sucks! And I miss you! You were my best friend before you went to Stamford, and I really miss you.



Karen: Hey.

Jim: Hey.

Karen: Who are you faxing so early in the morning?

Jim: Oh, umm... kinda hard to explain.

Jim: I don't have a ton of contact with the Scranton branch, but, before I left, I took a box of Dwight's stationery, so, from time to time, I send Dwight faxes. From himself. From the future. [reading fax] "Dwight, at 8 A.M. today, someone poisons the coffee. Do not drink the coffee. More instructions will follow. Cordially, Future Dwight."

Dwight: No![knocks coffee out of Stanley's hand.] You'll thank me later.

Michael: There she is - Jan Levinson. First...

Jan: Michael.

Michael: ...thing in the morning. Love to start my morning with a hearty bowl of Jan.

Jan: Michael.

Michael: [singing] Just call me Levinson in the morning, baby.

Jan: Michael.

Michael: Yes.

Jan: I am here to tell you that we are closing the Scranton branch.

Michael: I don't understand.

Jan: The board voted last night to close your branch.

Michael: On whom's authority?

Jan: The board's.

Michael: What?

Jan: I'm very sorry. I don't relish telling you this. You've been a big part of this company, and the board asked me to thank you for your years of service.

Michael: You're welcome.

Jan: A small number of people will be transferred to the Stamford branch, and the rest will be getting severance packages.

Michael: Am I a small number person or a severance package person?

Jan: Well, we haven't made final decisions about personnel yet. But you're a severance package person.

Michael: Oh... [burrys head in hands] Oh, my god. Oh, my god! I don't really get it 'cause we're not doing that bad and our numbers are gonna come up.

Jan: Well, it's not all about numbers, Michael.

Michael: Well...

Jan: It's... it's about talent.

Michael: Oh, you gotta be... Josh?

Jan: Our CFO believes that Josh is going to play an important role in our company's future.

Michael: Oh really, what role is that? King of the stupid universe?

Michael: It is an outrage, that's all. It's... hey're making a huge, huge mistake. Let's see Josh replace these people. Let's see Josh find another Stanley. You think Stanleys grow on trees? Well they don't. There is no Stanley tree. Do you think the world is crawling with Phyllises? Show me that farm. With Phyllises and Kevins sprouting up all over the place. Ripe for the plucking. Show me that farm.

Michael: Pictures. Memories. [Picks up a framed photo of Stanley's daughter from Stanley's desk] Look at that. They grow up so fast.

Dwight: Hey stranger.

Michael: Don't say that. That just sounds weird. Please.

Dwight: Sorry. I just feel like we haven't talked in awhile.

Michael: Well... we have nothin to talk about, Dwight. Just do your work ... while you still can.

Dwight : When you become close with someone, you develop a kind of sixth sense. You can read their moods like a book. And right now, the title of Michael's book is, "Something Weird is Going On." Colon, "What Did Jan Say? The Michael Scott Story. By Michael Scott, with Dwight Schrute."

Karen: Hey, um... did you hear about your friends in Pennsylvania? Rumor has it that the Scranton Branch is... [clicks her tongue to her mouth motions chopping off a head]

Jim: Really? Wow... that's bad.

Andy: Um, sorry... the Scranton branch is closing? [Karen nods and Andy looks at Jim] In your face!

Jim: Well, I work here now.

Andy: Mmmm.. suck-ah!

Pam: Are you okay?

Michael: Yeah, great! Amazing. Best physical condition of my life.

Pam: What did Jan want?

Michael: Nothing. Just checking in. I can't tell you, so...

Pam: What can't you tell me?

Michael: Nothing, Pam.[whispers to himself] What difference does it make? We'll be gone in a couple of weeks anyway.

Pam: What?!

Michael: What?

Pam: You just said that we're gonna be gone...?

Michael: Do I have any messages?

Pam: Michael, what's going on?

Michael: Ok, ok...

Michael: [facing the whole office] Listen up, everybody... I have some news. We are screwed. Dunder-Mifflin, Scranton is being shut down.

Toby: Michael, uh... we shouldn't be talking about this until all the decisions have been made.

Michael: You knew about this all along, didn't you?

Toby: Jan told me just a few minutes before she told you.

Michael: Traitor. You are a traitor.

Angela: What about us, Michael? Do we still have jobs?

Michael: I don't know. Probably not. This is the worst.

Ryan: It makes perfect sense that it would happen today because I just received this in the mail. [holds up cards] A thousand business cards with this address and phone number.

Angela: I don't want to blame anyone in particular. I think everyone's to blame.

Kelly: If I get to stay and Ryan is laid off, I will kill myself. Like Romeo and Juliet, the Claire Danes one.

Andy: [surrounded by clapping coworkers] Stamford, Connecticut! Stamford, Connecticut!

Jim: I worked in Scranton for a really long time. And uh, it's going to be weird that it's all disappearing. I mean, I always knew that the branch would shut down someday. I just figured it would be because Michael sold the building for some magic beans.

Stanley: I couldn't be happier. I'm gonna take the severance and retire. My wife and I are gonna travel. [chuckles] I really couldn't be happier.

Pam: It's a blessing in disguise. Actually, not even in disguise. Sometimes at home, I answer the phone, "Dunder-Mifflin, this is Pam." So, maybe that'll stop now.

Roy: What does that mean?

Kevin: Well, some of us are fired and a few are going to Connecticut.

Roy: I don't really want to work here without Pam. You know that Cinderella song, "You Don't Know What You Got (Till It's Gone)"? That pretty much says it better than how I know how to say it... in words.

Darryl: Hey Mike.

Michael: Darryl. Noble Darryl. [sighs]

Darryl: Look, I heard about the office. Tough break.

Michael: I know, I know. Well, I'll land on my feet. Don't worry about me.

Darryl: I wasn't.

Michael: So, you'll be okay too. You're a warrior. You're smart, capable. You'll find something else and...

Darryl: Actually, Bob Vance bought out the warehouse. So he's keeping on the whole crew. So, we good.

Michael: Awesome.

Michael: This is my house. The CFO is taking away my house and giving it to Josh. And Josh is giving the garage to Bob Vance.

Michael: All right, listen up. Some of you may have heard some rumors about the branch closing. But, I am not going to take this lying down. I have a plan and I am going to save our jobs. So just hang in there. [Looks at Dwight] Let's go.

Dwight: Yes!

Pam: Oh, good... you're bringing Dwight.

Michael: Yes. This might get ugly. I need backup.

Dwight: What's the plan?

Michael: Go to New York, confront the CFO, show him he's making a mistake... save the branch.

Dwight: Can I drive?

Michael: No... way.

Dwight: Shotgun!

Michael: No. There's no one else.

Dwight: Still.

Dwight: Thank you very much. [hangs up cell phone] Okay, secretary says Wallace is away for the day and won't be coming back into the office.

Michael: Okay, okay. Um...

Dwight: But, do not worry. I have his home address right [presses cell phone button] here.

Michael: Why?

Dwight: Christmas card list.

Michael: You sent him cards? You never met him.

Dwight: But when I do, we'll have something to talk about.

Jim: Hey, do you have a second?

Josh: Sure, what's up?

Jim: I know it's not definite or whatever, but uh, do you know who's coming over here from Scranton?

Josh: I honestly don't. I don't know.

Jim: Okay, so is it like sales or... accountants?

Josh: You know what, Jim, I wouldn't worry about it.

Jim: What does that mean?

Jan: Hi.

Josh: Jan, hey.

Jan: Oh, good. You're both here. Ready to talk logistics?

Ryan: [to Kelly] I just feel like it could have been something special if we could have kept working together, but I'm gonna go someplace else and you're gonna go someplace else. It just doesn't make sense.

Ryan: This kinda worked out perfectly for me. I got some good experience. Uh, Michael's gonna write me a great recommendation. And as far as me and Kelly goes, I think it's for the best.

Michael: Okay, this is it. [runs up the stairs of CFO's house, with Dwight] This is exactly what Michael Moore does, famous documentarian. He goes up to people with a camera and he's like "Why did you do this? Why did you pollute? You are bad. You're a bad person." It's very dramatic. Although, I can't say I was a big fan of 'Bowling for Columbine', because I thought it was going to be a bowling movie, like 'Kingpin'. And it wasn't. It was something else.



Jan: So, Josh will be running what is now called Dunder-Mifflin ,Northeast, which is all the offices north of Stamford. And Jim, fi you want the job, you'll be his number two.

Josh: Wow. Uh, sure. Absolutely.

Jan: Awesome.

Josh: Excuse me, Jan, I'm sorry... I'm gonna have to stop you there. I, um, will not be taking the job.

Jan: Wha... excuse... why not?

Josh: As of today, I have accepted a senior managment position at Staples.

Jan: Today?

Josh: [nods]

Jan: You leveraged your new position with us into another offer?

Josh: [sighs]

Jan: Damn it, Josh. This whole restructuring thing was based around keeping you. I...

Josh: I'm sorry, all right? It's done, it's done.

Jan: I'm gonna make some calls.

Jim: Say what you will about Michael Scott, but he would never do that.

Dwight: So, do you know what you're gonna say when he shows up?

Michael: I will improvise. I will speak from the heart.

Dwight: No. Bad idea. You need an attack plan. Here, I'll be him, you be you. Let's practice.

Michael: All right.

Dwight: [as David Wallace] Dum, dum, dum, dum... coming home from work.

M ichael: Excuse me, Mr. Wallace? David Wallace?

Dwight: Yes? What is the meaning of this?

Michael : Can you tell us why you are shutting down Scranton and putting 15 people out of work?

Dwight: Well, the branch is no longer finicially viable. It's simple dollars and cents.

Michael: Yes, but these are employees, Sir. These are human beings.

Dwight: Listen, Scott... we're losing money, okay? It's not a charity; it's a business. And it's a dying business.

Michael: [no longer talking to Dwight as Wallace] Stop... stop it! Just, okay. He's not going to say any of that.

Dwight: [as himself] Whoa hey, why not?

Michael: Because he'd be intimidated and I, just... let's start again. Just be more scared of me, okay?

Dwight: Okay.

Michael: Don't touch me this time.

Dwight: [as David Wallace] Dum, dum, dum, du, doy, du, do... coming home from work...

Michael: Excuse me, Mr. Wallace?

Dwight: [frightened] Uh!

Jan: So... we are still scrambling here. But uh, it looks like Scranton is going to absorb Stamford.

Jim: Wow.

Jan: And I know that you just left there a couple of months ago, but we would like to offer you the number two position at that branch.

Jim: Thank you.

Jan: Yeah.

Jim: No, it's just I'm not sure if I um... well to be quite honest with you, Jan, I have a few unpleasant memories of Scranton. And um...

Jan: Michael.

Jim: No. No, no. Just um... some personal stuff. And I'm not really ready to revist that, I don't think.

Jan: Ah. Well, please think about it. And call me. We will do whatever we can to get you to stay.

Jim: Okay.

Phyllis: Hey guys. Uh, I'm trying to organize a little group lunch for everybody since you know, we're never gonna see each other again.

Kevin: Where are we going?

Phyllis: I thought maybe DJ's.

Kevin: How about Cugino's?

Angela: I don't want to go all the way to Dunmore.

Kevin: How 'bout Cooper's then?

Angela: No seafood.

Kevin: But, I don't want to go to DJ's.

Angela: Oh, now all of a sudden you get picky?

Phyllis: Okay, forget it. [walks away]

Kevin: Hooters?

Angela: No.

Dwight: Ah. [takes a gulp of Gatorade and passes the bottle to Michael] Here, replinish your fluids.

Michael: [takes bottle and cleans off cap with his tie]

Jan: [in Scranton] Where's Michael?

Pam: He's not here. I don't know where he is.

Jan: [looks around, noticing that no one is working] Wha... what's going on here?

Phyllis: We know the branch is closing; Michael told us.

Jan: Ah, god. Okay. You know what everybody? I'm sure there is a better way to do this but I've drive something like 400 miles today and I'm completely exhausted so I'm just gonna tell you. Your branch is not closing; Stamford is closing. Um, for the time being, it seems that all your jobs are safe.

Angela: Yes!

Kevin: Yes! [hugs Angela]

Phyllis: Stanley! [hugs Stanley]

Pam: Is it because of Michael? Did he actually do something?

Jan: Well, reasons are not important. Would you just call him, please? Wherever he is... and tell him.

Pam: Sure, uh, Jan... um, do you know, is anyone coming back to Scranton?

Jan: Back?

Pam: Coming to Scranton. Is anyone coming to Scranton?

Jan: Uh, we don't know. Probably. A few.

Dwight: [referring to Michael's ringing phone] who is it?

Michael: The office.

Dwight: Gonna get it?

Michael: No, not until I have some good news for them. Not until I have some good news.

Pam: I guess some new people might be coming from Stamford. Should be fun. New blood.

Ryan: Is Jim coming back.

Pam: That's, um... I hadn't thought about it, huh.

Ryan: I just don't want it to be weird, you know? I mean, I took his old job and his old desk.

Pam: Yeah, that might be weird. Overall though, we still all have our jobs... so, good news, right?

Ryan: Oh, yeah, totally.

Kelly: Ahhhhh! [hugs Ryan] I'm so happy we don't have to break up now, Ryan! [kisses him] This is the best day of my whole l ife!

Karen: What you gonna do?

Jim: I really don't know. How you doing with all this?

Karen: You know, I'm fine. I'll be better when I know if I have a job.

Jim: You'd actually move to Scranton?

Karen: Yeah, if they let me, I think I... I think I would.

Jim: New York City is 45 minutes down the road from here. And you wanna move to Scranton? I dunno. If I were you I'd move to New York?

Karen: Yeah, you know... I might do that. I, who knows? I... I might do that.

Josh: Hey Andy!

Andy: [after screaming and throwing papers around in the kitchen] What's up, Josh?

Josh: I just want to say thanks. Good luck.

Andy: Thanks, man. You, too. Totally.

Michael: Anything?

Dwight: Nothing. [puts down binoculars]

Michael: What if this doesn't work? What is the office actually goes under?

Dwight: Then it was an honor to have worked with you.

Michael: [pats Dwight and sighs] All right, favorite moments in Dunder-Mifflin history. Go.

Dwight: My first day when you hazed me by spraying me with a fire extinguisher.

Michael: That was hilarious. The foam ...

Dwight: Uh,... my first sale, my promotion to assistant regional manager, our basketball game, when you took me to the hospital, and told me that you cared about me.

Michael: Oh, right. Okay, that's enough. That's good.

Dwight: What were your favorite moments?

Michael: Oh, hmm, all of them. I loved them all. Every single one.

Dwight: What about when Jan said the branch was closing?

Michael: God, Dwight!

Dwight: Well, it doesn't...

Kevin: Hey Pam, we're going to Poor Richards. Creed's buying shots.

Pam: No thanks, guys.

Kevin: All right.

Pam: Have fun though.

Kevin: Cool.

Phyllis: Hey, I hear Jim's coming back.

Pam: Really? Where did you hear that?

Phyllis: I was...

Kevin: [interupting] Hey Ryan, you coming?

Ryan: Uh yeah, we'll meet you there.

Kevin: Awesome. Let's go, Phyllis.

Phyllis: [to Pam] I'll tell you later.

Pam: Okay.

Roy: Crazy day, huh?

Pam: Yeah.

Roy: Yeah, man! I'm uh... I'm really glad you're still gonna be working here.

Pam: Yeah, me too.

Pam: Maybe this is good. Finding another job is a pain. There's another annoying boss, another desk, I'd have to learn everything all over again. So, there are reasons to stay.

Jim: Hey, um, I think I am gonna take that job. And Scranton... it's not that bad. So, if they offer you a job there, I think you should take it.

Karen: Okay, yeah. Maybe I will.

Jim: Okay.

Karen: Yeah, I'm happy he said that. I mean, I don't think he's into me or anything, but, I'm kind of into him. So...there you go.

Michael: What are we still doing here? It's over. Let's go home. Get the car.

Dwight: [picks up his beeping cell phone]

Michael: Oh, this was such a stupid idea! This was so stupid. I am such a stupid idiot. I let everybody down. Everybody hates me. I lost everybody's jobs. Nobody likes me anymore!

Dwight: [on the phone] Oh my God!

Michael: What?!

Dwight:: Stranford is closed! Michael, we're not closed. Stamford is closed. Stamford is closed.

Michael: We did it? We did it.

Dwight: We did it!

Michael and Dwight: We did it! We did it!

Michael: Right here! Right here! [pounds his chest against Dwight's]

Michael and Dwight: Ouu! Ou! Ouu! Ouu!

Michael: Yeah, baby!

Dwight: In your face!

Michael: We did it!

Dwight: Oh, man.

Michael: How did we do it?

Dwight: I don't ... have no idea.

Michael: I don't understand.

Toby: Well for a minute there, I saw myself selling my house, moving to Costa Rica, learning how to surf. But, Costa Rica will still be there. When I'm 65.


Michael: Tonight the Scranton Business Park is having Casino Night and we are converting our warehouse into a full-blown gambling hall. And I know it's illegal in Pennsylvania, but it's for charity. And I consider myself a great philanderer. It's just... It's nice to know at the end of the day, I can look in the mirror and say, "Michael, because of you, some little kid in the Congo has a belly full of rice this evening." Makes you feel good.

Pam: Hey.

Jim: Hey, how's it going?

Pam: Good. Especially after I took all your money in poker.

Jim: [laughing] Yeah. Uh... Hey can I talk to you about something?

Pam: About when you want to give me more of your money?

Jim: No, I...

Pam: Did you want to do that now? We can go inside. I'm feeling kind of good tonight.

Jim: I was just...um...I'm in love with you.

Pam: What?

Jim: I'm really sorry if that's weird for you to hear, but I needed you to hear that. Probably not good timing, I know that, I just...

Pam: What are you doing? What do you expect me to say to that?

Jim: I just needed you to know. Once.

Pam: Well, I um...I...I can't.

Jim: Yeah.

Pam: You have no idea...

Jim: Don't do that.

Pam: ...what your friendship means to me.

Jim: C'mon. I don't want to do that. I want to be more than that

Pam: I can't. I'm really sorry...if you misinterpreted things. It's probably my fault.

Jim: Not your fault. I'm sorry I misinterpreted uh our friendship. (a tear rolls down his cheek)

Pam: [looks at her engagement ring, sadly and awkwardly.]


Jim: Michael has asked Pam and me to dinner at least...nine times, and every time, we've been able to get out of it. But, I gotta give him credit...he got me...because I'm starting to suspect that there was no assignment from Corporate.

Pam: I don't care what they say about me, I just want to eat. Which is realize is a lot to ask for...at a dinner party!

Jim: Michael and Jan seem to be playing their own separate game, and it's called "Let's See How Uncomfortable We Can Make Our Guests" - and, they're both winning, so I am going to make a run for it.

Pam: You can buy new stuff, Jim, but you can't buy a new fiance.
Michael: That's true.

Jan: What're you doing here?!
Dwight: We came to eat dinner, and to party - this is, a...dinner party, right?
Pam: Awesome!

Michael: That was a $200 plasma screen TV!!!


Michael: When I said that I wanted to have kids, and you said, you wanted me to have a vasectomy, what did I do? And then when you said that you might want to have kids and I wasn't so sure, Who had the vasectomy reversed? And then when you said you defintely didn't want to have kids, who had it reversed back? Snip snap! Snip snap! Snip snap! I did. You have no idea the physical toll, that three vasectomies have on a person. And I bought this condo to fill with children.

Pam: I know Jan didn't poison the food - I know that. But if she was going to poison the food of someone at that table, wouldn't it be me? Michael's former lover.

Michael: (jokingly)I'm in hell!

Angela: (sternly) You shouldn't joke about that, you know.

[Opening credits]

[Mr Brown is setting up the conference room when Michael interrupts him]

Michael: Hey, uh, can I help you out in here?

Mr. Brown: Oh, I'm all set, thanks.

Michael: Gotcha. Good. I'd go with the rows. That's a good idea.

[Michael is in an interview]

Michael: Today is diversity day and someone's going to come in and talk to us about diversity. It's something that I've been pushing, that I've been wanting to push, for a long time and Corporate mandated it. And I never actually talked to Corporate about it. They kind of beat me to the punch, the bastards. But I was going to. And I think it's very important that we have this. I'm very, very excited.

[Jim is on the phone with a client]

Jim: That's the thing. It's very sturdy paper and on the back it says, "100% post-consumer content." What? Hello? Uh-huh. Wait. What? I'm sorry, Mr. Decker. I think I'm losing you. [Shedder whirring] Hello? Hello? Yeah. Hold on one second. I don't know. Hold on one second.

Jim: Do you really have to do that right now?

Dwight: Yes I do. I should have done it weeks ago actually.

Jim: Mr. Decker, I'm sorry about that. What were you... Can you hold on one second? Yeah, just one second. Thanks. [Power off, silence] Hello? That's it. Perfect. So what I was saying... [Dialing tone] Hello? Thanks, Dwight.

Dwight: Retaliation. Tit for tit.

Jim: That is not the expression. [Shredder starts whirring again]

Dwight: Well, it should be.

[Jim is in an interview]

Jim: This is my biggest sale of the year. They love me over there for some reason. I'm not really sure why but I make one call over there every year, just to renew their account, and that one call ends up being 25% of my commission for the whole year, so I buy a mini bottle of champagne, celebrate a little. And this year I'm pushing recycled paper on them for one percent more. I know. I'm getting cocky. Right?

[Pam is playing solitaire on her computer when Jim comes to her desk]

Jim: Solitaire?

Pam: Yeah, Freecell.

Jim: Six on seven.

Pam: I know. I saw that.

Jim: So then, why didn't you do it?

Pam: I'm saving that 'cause I like it when the cards go T-ts-ts-tch-tch-tch.

Jim: Who doesn't love that?

[Michael comes out of his office and then goes back in again. When Mr Brown exits the conference room, Michael exits his office alongside him]

Michael: Hey, Oscar! How are you doing, man? 

Oscar: All right.

Michael: Did you have a good weekend going there?

Oscar: It was fine.

Michael: Oh yeah, I bet it was fun. [to Mr. Brown] Oh, hey! This is Oscar-

Oscar: Martinez.

Michael: Right. See? I don't even know, first-name basis!

Mr. Brown: Great. We're all set.

Michael: Oh hey, well, diversity, everybody, let's do it. Oscar works in... here. Jim, could you wrap it up, please?

Jim: Yeah, uh, Mr. Decker, please.

Michael: It's diversity day, Jim. I wish every day was diversity day.

Jim: You know what? I'm actually going to have to call you back. Thank you. Sorry about that.

[In the conference room, Mr Brown is collecting cards from everyone]

Mr. Brown: Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Great.

Michael: Come on people, let's get 'em in. Get in the cards! Get in the cards!

Mr. Brown: Thank you. Thank you very much. OK. Thanks for filling these out and I promise this'll be quick. At Diversity Today, our philosophy is about honesty and positive expectations. We believe that 99% of the problems in the workplace arise simply out of ignorance.

Michael: You know what? This is a color-free-zone here. Stanley, I don't look at you as another race.

Mr. Brown: Uh, see this is what I'm talking about. We don't have to pretend we're color-blind.

Michael: Exactly, were not...

Mr. Brown: That's fighting ignorance with more ignorance.

Michael: With tolerance.

Mr. Brown: No. With more ignorance.

Michael: Ignorance.

Mr. Brown: Right. Exactly. Uh, instead, we need to celebrate our diversity.

Michael: Let's celebrate.

Mr. Brown: Right. OK.

Michael: Celebrate good times. Come on! Let's celebrate diversity. Right?

Mr. Brown: Yes, exactly. Now here's what we're going to do. I've noticed that...

Michael: You know what? Here's what we're going to do. Why don't we go around and everybody... everybody say a race that you are attracted to sexually. I will go last. Go.

Dwight: I have two. White and Indian. [Kelly, the Indian girl who is sitting next to Dwight, looks shocked]

Mr. Brown: Actually, I'd prefer not to start that way. Michael, I would love to have your permission to run this session. Can I have your permission?

Michael: Yes.

Mr. Brown: Thank you very much. And it would also help me if you were seated.

Michael: OK.

Mr. Brown: Thank you. OK. Now, at the start of the session, I had you all write down an incident that you found offensive in the workplace. Now, what I'm going to do is choose one and we're going to act it out.

Dwight: A few of the ground rules? 

Michael: Hey, hey why don't you run it by me and I'll run it by him.

Dwight: OK, can we steer away from gay people?

Mr. Brown: Um...

Dwight: I'm sorry. It's an orientation. It's not a race. Plus a lot of other races are intolerant of gays, so...paradox.

Mr. Brown: Well, we only have an hour.

Dwight: I figured it would save time.

Michael: OK. Why don't we just defer to Mr...

Mr. Brown: Mr. Brown.

Michael: Ah. Oh, right! OK. First test. I will not call you that.

Mr. Brown: Well, it's my name. It's not a test. OK? Um, so looking through the cards, I've noticed that many of you wrote down the same incident, which is ironic, because it's the exact incident I was brought in here to respond to. Now, how many of you are familiar with the Chris Rock routine? [A few people raise their hands] Very good. OK.

[Michael is in an interview]

Michael: How come Chris Rock can do a routine and everybody finds it hilarious and ground-breaking and then I go and do the exact same routine, same comedic timing, and people file a complaint to Corporate? Is it because I'm white and Chris is black?

[Cuts back to the diversity day seminar]

Mr. Brown: So we're going to reenact this with a more positive outcome.

Michael: I will play the Chris Rock guy. I would like to see someone else pull this off.

Mr. Brown: Well, let's have someone who wasn't involved in the reenactment.

Michael: OK, I will play guy listening.

Mr. Brown: Great. Guy listening. Ok, anyone else remember?

Kevin: I remember.

Mr. Brown: Great. You're the Chris Rock guy and you're guy listening.

Michael: OK.

[Michael is in an interview]

Michael: Kevin is a great guy. He's a great accountant. He is not much of an entertainer. [A shot of Kevin writing with a large pencil is shown]

[Cuts back to the diversity day seminar, where Kevin is reenacting the Chris Rock routine]

Kevin: [Monotonously] Basically, there are two types of black people and black people are actually more racist because they hate the other type of black people. Every time the one type wants to have a good time, then the other type comes in and makes a real mess.

Michael: OK. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. He's ruin... He's butchering it. Could you just let me... [As Chris Rock] Every time... Every time black people want to have a good time, some ignant ass... [Bleep] I take care of my kid!

Mr. Brown: Wait a second.

Michael: [Bleep] They always want credit for something they supPOSED to do!

Mr. Brown: Stop it!

Michael: [As Chris Rock] What you want a cookie?

[Jim watches the phone as it rings, while Mr Brown continues the seminar]

Mr. Brown: Now, this is a simple acronym. HERO. Uh, at Diversity Today, we believe it is very easy to be a HERO. All you need are honesty, empathy, respect and open-mindedness.

Dwight: Excuse me, I'm sorry, but that's not all it takes to be a hero.

Mr. Brown: Oh, great. Well, what is a hero to you?

Dwight: A hero kills people, people that wish him harm.

Mr. Brown: OK.

Dwight: A hero is part-human and part-supernatural. A hero is born out of a childhood trauma, or out of a disaster that must be avenged.

Mr. Brown: Ok, you're thinking of a superhero.

Dwight: We all have a hero in our heart.

Mr. Brown: Now, I need you to take these forms. This kind of expresses the joint experience we had today. And I need you to look 'em over and sign them as kind of a group pledge.

Michael: [Clears throat] I don't think I can sign this.

Mr. Brown: I can't leave until you do.

Michael: Well, OK, it says here that I learned something and I knew all this stuff already, so... I know, I could sign something that says that I taught something, or that I helped you teach something, so... Pam! Where is she? Pam, could we change something on this?

Mr. Brown: Michael, can I talk to you candidly?

Michael: Sure.

[Mr Brown is in Michael's office talking to him]

Mr. Brown: We both know that I'm here because of the comments you made.

Michael: Here's the thing. This office, I think this is very advanced in terms of... racial awareness and it's probably more advanced than you're used to. That's probably throwing you off a little bit.

Mr. Brown: Um, it's not throwing me. I need your signature.

Michael: OK, well I know. You told me that several times.

Mr. Brown: Yes, but you're not listening to me. Yours is the only signature I need.

Michael: OK.

Mr. Brown: Those are my instructions from the Corporate offices to put you through this seminar for the comments that you made. The reason I made copies for everyone was so you wouldn't be embarrassed.

Michael: Well, here I am thinking that you actually cared about diversity training. And you don't.

Mr. Brown: Don't worry about dating.

Michael: I won't.

Mr. Brown: OK. Thank you.

Michael: Yeah, yeah. [Mr Brown leaves]

[Michael is in an interview, reading the form]

Michael: "I regret my actions. I regret offending my coworkers. I pledge to bring my best spirit of honesty, empathy, respect and open-mindedness..." Open-mindedness, is that even a word? "...into the workplace. In this way, I can truly be a hero. Signed, Daffy Duck." [Laughing] He's going to lose it when he reads that.

[Jim is on the phone with a client]

Jim: Yeah, hi. Is Mr. Decker around? Oh, well, could you just have him call me after lunch? Thank you.

Michael: "I pledge to always keep an open mind and an open heart." [Rips up the form] I do believe... in that part of the pledge I that just read. But a pledge? Come on. I mean who are we, the Girl Scouts? No. Look... the guy, "Mr. Brown," he got us halfway there. He got us talking. Well, no. I got us talking. He got us nothing. He insulted us and he abandoned us. You call that diversity training? I don't. Were there any connections between any of us? Did anyone look each other in the eye? Was there any emotion going on? No. Where was the heart? I didn't see any heart. Where was my Oprah moment? OK, get as much done as you can before lunch because, afterward, I'm going to have you all in tears.

[Michael has set up the conference room for his own diversity day seminar]

Michael: All right? Everybody pretty? Come on. Here we go. It's time. Let's do some good.

Toby: Hey, we're not all going to sit in a circle Indian style are we? [Laughing]

Michael: Get out.

Toby: I'm sorry.

Michael: No, this is not a joke. OK? That was offensive and lame. So double offensive. This is an environment of welcoming and you should just get the hell out of here. OK, let's go. Let's do it. Come on. Let's have some fun, everybody. Here we go. Take a seat. Cop a squat. And um... thanks for coming in. Um... Diversity... is the cornerstone of progress as I've always said. But don't take my word for it. Let's take a look at the tape.

[Michael turns on the TV to show him standing in front of the Dunder Mifflin sign]

Michael: [on the tape] Hi. I'm Michael Scott. I'm in charge of Dunder Mifflin Paper Products here in Scranton, Pennsylvania but I'm also the founder of Diversity Tomorrow, because today is almost over. Abraham Lincoln once said that, "If you're a racist, I will attack you with the North." And those are the principles that I carry with me in the workplace. [Michael turns off the TV]

Michael: OK. Questions? Comments? Anybody? [Jim raises his hand] Jim?

Jim: Uh, is that it?

Michael: Yes. I only had an hour to put it together but I'm going to add on to it later on.

Kevin: It was kind of hard to hear.

Michael: Uh, yes. That probably had something to do with the camera work. Anybody else? Um...

Kelly: I have a customer meeting.

Michael: Yeah, well, if you leave we'll only have two left. Yes. [Kelly leaves] Enjoy. Absolutely. Namaste. Ok, well since I am leading this, let's get down to business and why don't I just kind of introduce myself, OK? Um. I am Michael and I am part English, Irish, German and Scottish. Sort of a virtual United Nations. But what some of you might not know is that I am also part Native American Indian.

Oscar: What part Native American?

Michael: Two fifteenths.

Oscar: Two fifteenths, that fraction doesn't make any sense.

Michael: Well, you know what, it's kind of hard for me to talk about it. Their suffering. So who else? Let's get this popping. Come on. Who's going? Who's going? [Dwight raises his hand] Let's go here. Oscar, right here. You're on.

Oscar: OK, Michael, um... Both my parents were born in Mexico.

Michael: Oh, yeah...

Oscar: And, uh, they moved to the United Sates a year before I was born.

Michael: Yeah...

Oscar: So I grew up in the United States.

Michael: Wow.

Oscar: My parents were Mexican.

Michael: Wow. That is... That is a great story. That's the American Dream right there, right?

Oscar: Thank... Yeah...

Michael: Um, let me ask you, is there a term besides Mexican that you prefer? Something less offensive?

Oscar: Mexican isn't offensive.

Michael: Well, it has certain connotations.

Oscar: Like what?

Michael: Like... I don't... I don't know.

Oscar: What connotations, Michael? You meant something.

Michael: No. Now, remember that honesty...

Oscar: I'm just curious.

Michael: ...empathy, respect... [Phone rings and Jim goes to answer it] Jim! Jim!

Jim: Hello? Hello?

[Michael holds up a board with a number of cards on it.]

Michael: I have something here. I want you to take a card. Put it on your fore... Don't look at the card. I want you to take the card and put it on your forehead and... Take a card, take a card, any card. [Pam puts a card saying "Jewish" on her forehead; Angela puts a card saying "Jamaican" on here forehead; Kevin puts a card saying "Italian" on his forehead] Um... And I want you to treat other people like the race that is on their forehead. OK? So everybody has a different race. Nobody knows what their race is, [Camera pans over to Stanley, who has been assigned "Black" as his race] so... I want you to really go for it, cause this is real. You know, this isn't just an exercise. This is real life. And... [Puts a card saying "Martin Luther King Jr." on his forehead] I have a dream that you will really let the sparks fly. Git-r-done!

[Michael is in an interview]

Michael: Why? Because Martin Luther King is a hero of mine. There's this great Chris Rock bit about how streets named after Martin Luther King tend to be more violent. I'm not going to do it but it's...

[Michael goes over to Pam and Stanley, who are talking to each other as part of Michael's diversity day exercise]

Michael: Oh this is a good one.

Pam: [Her race is "Jewish"] Um, hi. How are you?

Stanley: [His race is "Black"]Fine. How are you?

Pam: Great.

Michael: Push it.

Stanley: I admire your culture's success in America.

Pam: Thank you.

Michael: Good. Bom bom bom-bom bom. Come on Olympics of Suffering right here. Slavery versus the Holocaust. Come on.

Stanley: Who am I supposed to be? [Looks at his race card]

Michael: No, that was inadvertent. We didn't actually plan that.

[Dwight (who has been assigned with "Asian" as his race) has finished talking to Meredith.]

Dwight: Lots of cultures eat rice, doesn't help me. [Goes over to Pam] Um... Shalom. I'd like to apply for a loan.

Pam: That's nice, Dwight.

Dwight: OK, do me. Something stereotypical so I can get it really quick.

Pam: OK, I like your food.

Dwight: Outback steakhouse. [Australian accent] I'm Australian, mate!

Michael: Pam, come on. "I like your food." Come on stir the pot. Stir the melting pot, Pam! Let's do it. Let's get ugly. Let's get real.

Pam: OK. If I have to do this, based on stereotypes that are totally untrue, that I do not agree with, you would maybe not be a very good driver.

Dwight: Oh, man, am I a woman?!

[Michael is an interview]

Michael: You'll notice I didn't have anybody be an Arab. I thought that would be too explosive. No pun intended. But I just though. "Too soon for Arabs." Maybe next year. Um... You know, the ball's in their court.

[Jim comes over to Ryan, who is at Pam's desk]

Jim: What are you watching?

Ryan: Chappelle's Show.

Jim: Really?

Ryan: I downloaded it on her computer. I hope she doesn't mind. She just had a lot of extra space.

Jim: No way. I think she likes this stuff.

Ryan: Great. She's cute, huh?

Jim: Yeah, you know, she's engaged, but...

Ryan: Oh, no, the girl in the... sketch.

Jim: Oh, yeah. She's hot.

[Kevin (who has been given "Italian" as his race) is talking to Angela (who has been given "Jamaican" as her race.)]

Kevin: Hey.

Angela: Hey.

Kevin: You wanna go to the beach?

Angela: Sure.

Kevin: You wanna get high?

Angela: No.

Kevin: I think you do, mon.

Angela: Stop...

Michael: OK. All right. No. It's good. You just need to push it. You need to go a little bit further. All right. OK. [Goes over to Kelly and talks to her in a high-pitched Indian accent] Kelly! How are you?

Kelly: I just had the longest meeting.

Michael: Oh! Welcome to my convenience store. Would you like some googi googi? I have some very delicious googi, googi, only 99 cents plus tax. Try my googi, googi. [Lowering voice] Try my googi, googi. [High-pitched voice] Try my googi, googi. Try my... [slap!] All right! All right! Yes! That was great, she gets it! Now she knows what it's like to be a minority.

[Jim is on the phone with a client]

Jim: Mr. Decker, we didn't lose your sale today, did we? Excellent. OK. Let me just get your... what's that? No, we didn't close last time. I just need your... Oh. W-What code were you given? Oh, OK. That's actually another salesman here. I can redo it if you want to do that. Oh, he gave you a discount? No, I don't blame you. [Jim puts a bottle of champagne on Dwight's desk.]

[Michael is speaking to employees in the conference room]

Michael: I just hated it when that guy was in here. Mr. Brown, if that was his real name. I mean, he had never met any of us before, and here he was telling us how to do our thing. I just wanted... I just wanted to do it our way. You know? On our own. Man I should have gotten some food.

Kevin: [With his a race card still on his forehead and in Italian accent] Maybe some spagh-etti.

Michael: Okay, Kevin. You can take that off that thing, OK? That would really, really have shown him up, wouldn't it? [Pam falls asleep on Jim's shoulder] If I'd brought in some burritos or some colored greens. Or some pad Thai. I love pad Thai.

Stanley: It's collard greens.

Michael: What?

Stanley: It's collard greens.

Michael: That doesn't really make sense. Because you don't call them collared people, that's offensive. Hmmm... OK, well, it's after five. [Everyone except Jim and Pam get up to leave] So... Thank you very much. Buena vista Oscar. Thank you. Good job. Oh, my man. Thank you Brazil. Nice.

Jim: Um... Hey.

Pam: [stirs] Mmmm.

Jim: Hey.

Pam: Oh.

Jim: We can go.

Pam: Sorry.

Jim: That's fine.

[Jim is in an interview]

Jim: Um... Not a bad day.

Jim: [phone ringing] You gonna answer that, Kev?

Kevin: Oh, right. Thanks. [reading off index card] Dunder Mifflin, this is Kevin. Please hold while I transfer you. [cupping the mouthpiece, yelling] Oscar, your mom!

Jim: Charles is having Kevin cover the phones for a while. How do I say this diplomatically? [pause] I think Kevin is doing exactly as well as anyone might have expected someone like him to perform in a position like that.

Kevin: Please hold. [cupping mouthpiece and holding out the phone] Andy! Phone call.

Jim: No. [Andy gets up from his desk] Stay there. Kev, thought we nailed the whole transfer thing earlier.

Kevin: Yeah, I wrote it on my hand... but then I washed it.

Jim: It is transfer, extension, and then transfer again.

Kevin: Okay. Andy, get ready. [muttering] Transfer. Extension. Transfer.

Jim: Here we go. [Meredith's phone rings. Jim and Andy groan.]

Kevin: Oh, man!

Andy: It is 1-3-4, Kev! [Kevin runs to the phone]

Jim: Kev, c'mon.

Dwight: Hustle!

Kevin: Hold it.

Andy: You are murdering the Nard-dog!

Kevin: [on phone] This is Kevin. Please hold and I will transfer you. [Phyllis's phone rings]

Angela: You're bad at this too!

Kevin: [running to the phone] Just... don't answer that call!

Stanley: Just transfer the damn call.

Kevin: Your call is very important to us. Ple-[Andy's phone rings]

Andy: Hey-o! [applauding and cheering]

Dwight: Way to go.

Andy: My maid died.

Pam: Today is my first day at my new job at Michael Scott Paper Company Incorporated. You know, Apple Computers started in a garage. And we're starting in a condo. So we already have a leg up on Apple. [picks up piece of mail] Look, it's official! [door opens, Michael is in a bath robe]

Michael: Oh, good. My hooker's here. [laughs] Hi.

Pam: Michael, you were expecting me, right?

Michael: Yes I was. Yes I was.

Pam: Are you wearing anything under the robe?

Michael: That is inappropriate, Pam. Come on in.

Pam: This looks great, Michael.

Michael: Thank you. Would you like some french toast?

Pam: Yes, please.

Michael: What shape?

Pam: ... Square is fine.

Michael: Alright.

Charles: Just want to fill you in on a few details. As you know, I will be running the branch while we search for Michael's replacement. So please feel free to come to me with any questions or concerns. [Kelly raises hand] Yeah.

Kelly: Where will you be staying while you're in Scranton?

Charles: Eh, uh, in a hotel.

Angela: Charles, where were you born?

Charles: Actually, I meant questions more about the day-to-day operations of the company. Kay. [Andy raises hand] Yeah.

Andy: How are operations of the company? Just, day-to day.

Charles: Okay, let's go over non-discretionary cuts. Okay, guys? [Charles sees Stanley with his crossword, Charles stares and he puts it away] Thank you. So, umm...

Jim: [whispering] Would you please stop that?

Dwight: What?

Jim: You're breathing very heavily.

Dwight: This is how I breathe.

Jim: No it's not.

Dwight: If you want to tell me -

Charles: Okay, Jim Halpert. I need your eyes up front.

Jim: Oh no. I was just -

Charles: No. Hey, hey. I just want to hear "yes".

Jim: ... Yes.

Charles: Good. As I was saying...

Dwight: Oh no! The new boss does not find Jim adorable! Ohhhh! [smiles]

Pam: So, what do you say we get started?

Michael: After breakfast.

Pam: I'm full.

Michael: So how you feeling about the new company?

Pam: I feel good. [sees a huge pile of French toast] Wow.

Michael: You excited? About the new company?

Pam: Yeah. I'm excited to start the company.

Michael: After breakfast.

Pam: We did that. So, what's next? Michael, just stop for a second. [reaches out to take the whisk] Michael. Stop for a second.

Michael: No, I'm whipping them.

Pam: No, I know you are.

Michael: Just let go.

Pam: Just let me have... Oh.

Michael: Let go, please. Just gimmee -

Pam: Fine! [eggs splatter all over his robe] Oh, I'm sorry. I'm sorry.

Michael: I can't do this! This is pathetic, isn't it? I am such an idiot. I gave up the only job I ever loved to do this? I have egg in my Crocs.

Phyllis: I never see him drink. I never see him eat.

Stanley: I don't think he even uses the bathroom.

Creed: Oh, he does. He does.

Michael: [doing situps] I feel weak today. Felt much stronger yesterday. Like Benjamin Button in reverse.

Pam: You know, Michael. When I feel overwhelmed -

Michael: I'm not overwhelmed, Pam.

Pam: I know! No, I'm saying that when I feel overwhelmed, something I like to do is make a list. Make a list of things to do and then start with the easy stuff.

Micheal: Whatever calms you down.

Pam: Okay, first, work out. And, hey! Look! You did that. Check. [Michael doing leg lifts] Eat an enormous breakfast. Check.

Michael: Don't patronize me, Pam.

Pam: I think you should get dressed.

Michael: I'm not getting dressed. I'm not getting dressed. I have too many things to do before I get dressed. I need to find a hundred clients.

Pam: Michael, that seems impossible.

Michael: It's totally impossible!

Pam: We need to come up with one realistic thing that we could do today.

Michael: Assemble a sales team. A dream team.

Pam: Great.

Michael: Okay, Ryan.

Pam: No. What? Why?

Michael: He's everything I'm not and everything I am. He's the whole package.

Pam: No. We're not gonna hire Ryan.

Michael: Umm... Oh! Vikram! Best salesman I've ever met.

Pam: Okay.

Michael: He worked at that telemarketing place.

Pam: We'll find him.

Michael: Okay. Oh also, we have a meeting this afternoon with a potential investor.

Pam: Really?

Michael: Yeah.

Pam: We have an investor already?

Michael: Maybe. Barbara Keebis. She invests in local businesses. And I am putting together a little presentation for her.

Pam: Michael, that's fantastic.

Michael: Yeah, I guess it's not so bad. Got a few things cookin'. [sits down in robe, legs spread wide] Umm...

Pam: Hey! We need to get you dressed!

Pam: I have doubts about this too. But when one person freaks out, sometimes it weirdly makes the other one calmer. That's one thing I've learned about relationships. I hate that I just used the word relationship. [Michael comes out in a suit] Hey! You look great! [checks something off her list] Let's go!

Michael: Alright.

Andy: [laughing at something on his computer]

Charles: You a soccer fan?

Andy: Oh. Oh my God. I'm so embarrassed. You weren't supposed to see this. This is like my secret obsession.

Charles: Well, that makes two of us.

Andy: No way!

Charles: Yeah.

Andy: I hate soccer. But guess who doesn't hate soccer? Charles Miner.

Charles: I was actually in Germany for the 2006 World Cup Finals.

Andy: Ahhh. You b*st*rd! That shoulda been me!

Charles: Yeah, I love the sport. I love the sport. Alright, man.

Andy: Cool!

Jim: I've never been a kiss up. I - it's just not how I operate. I mean, I've always subscribed to the idea that if you really want to impress your boss, you go in there and you do mediocre work. Half-heartedly.

Pam: Next on the list - open the mail.

Michael: Oh. Wow. "Michael Scott Paper Company." Okay. Very official. "Dear Mr. Scott. Please be advised that it is in violation of your condominium agreement to conduct a business headquartered in your residence. The penalty, a forfeiture of residence."

Pam: No, okay. It's fine. It's fine. We're just gonna add "find office"...

Michael: How are we gonna find an office? How can we pay for an office?

Pam: Next on the list -- song parodies.

Michael: Okay. Okay. "Achey Breaky Fart."

Pam: Great. Let's sing it in the car.

Michael: No! No No. No. "My Stumps." Like "My Humps" but a guy with no legs.

Pam: Yeah.

Michael: We can do this.

Pam: We can do this.

Andy: Whoa! And he just goes, "Boom". [kicking motion] Goal!

Charles: Yep. Yep. That's Pele.

Andy: You know your soccer, man.

Charles: I know. Yes I do.

Stanley: I prefer [looks down at palms] Maradona. Uhhh... Diego Maradona.

Charles: Oh yeah?

Stanley: From Argentina.

Charles: I didn't know we had so many, uh, soccer fans in the office.

Andy: I mean, to be fair, I was the first one to talk about it, but...

Charles: What about you, Jim? You a fan of the game?

Jim: Uh, no. Nope. Not really.

Charles: Well, it's not for everybody I suppose. [Andy laughs]

Jim: It's 'cause I'm more of a player.

Charles: Yeah?

Jim: You bet.

Dwight: Really, Jim? I had no idea you played soccer. 'Cause you never, ever talk about it.

Jim: Well I do.

Dwight: Wow.

Jim: I play.

Dwight: You can be so modest sometimes.

Jim: Well, maybe you should get back to work.

Dwight: Maybe you and Charles should kick the soccer ball around.

Jim: Maybe we will someday.

Dwight: Maybe you will tonight after work. What do you say?

Charles: That's a great idea, Dwight.

Dwight: Great ideas are just part of what I bring to the table.

Jim: Yeah.

Dwight: I don't try and be anything that I'm not.

Charles: What do you say, Jim? Huh? Wanna play some soccer?

Dwight: Jim, what do you say?

Angela: Sounds fun.

Andy: I'm in it to win.

Dwight: Game on!

Charles: Okay. See you on the field, there, bro.

Jim: Let's... eh... see ya.

Charles: See you on the field. Ha, ha. I can't wait!

Jim: Yep, I used to play soccer in school. From second to fourth grade. I was on the orange team.

Pam: [Michael comes out with Vikram, arms raised] We got Vikram!

Vikram: You got me.

Vikram: Where are we going?

Pam: We have a meeting with an investor today.

Michael: Yes we do. So, get excited. But I have to go the bathroom real quick. If you'll excuse me, be right back. [gets out of the car] Ah, okay.

Vikram: He seems really confident.

Pam: He can be.

Vikram: Confidence. It's the food of the wise man but the liquor of the fool.

Pam: Hm. I'm looking forward to getting to know you better, Vikram.

Michael: Hey. I would like a pair of size nine, please. [Ryan is working at the bowling alley] It's Michael.

Ryan: I'm swamped, Michael. [over the PA] Happy birthday to Sally in lane 27.

Michael: Okay, imagine a company that has no memory of your past misconduct because they have no files.

Vikram: He's taking a long time. Is it possible he's bowling? I mean, you know him better than I do.

Pam: Yes. Yes, it's possible.

Michael: Well, it has always been a lifelong dream.

Pam: Michael! What's going on?

Michael: I'm...

Pam: Hey, Ryan.

Ryan: Hey, you.

Michael: Excuse me. Yes?

Pam: This wasn't on the list.

Michael: Yes, it is.

Pam: No.

Michael: Yes.

Pam: It's not.

Michael: It is.

Pam: [looks at list] When did you add this to the list?

Michael: Pam. Everyone deserves a second second chance. [walks back to Ryan] Ryan, just out of curiosity, how much do you get paid here?

Ryan: Sixty thousand dollars a year.

Pam: You get paid by the year at the bowling alley?

Ryan: What do you make, secretary?

Supervisor: Back to work, shoe bitch!

Ryan: I told you guys, I'm really busy here, so...

Michael: Would you like to come to work for the Michael Scott Paper Company?

Ryan: What size shoes are you guys?

Michael: Uh, nine.

Ryan: What are those, a men's ten?

Pam: No.

Michael: [Ryan grabs some shoes] Look what he's doing.

Pam: What is he doing?

Michael: He's stealing them. Okay, okay.

Pam: Oh my God.

Michael: He's already paying for himself.

Pam: Sorry!

Ryan: Where is it?

Michael: Right here.

Vikram: Hey, c'mon, guys. These are prime selling hours, you know.

Charles: Miner - [kicking a piece of trash]

Jim: Oh, there he goes.

Charles: ...sees his partner -

Jim: Yikes.

Charles: Halpert. He looks up!

Jim: Aw, man.

Charles: Defending duo! He sets him up! [Jim moves the piece of trash with his hands] He sets him up. Yeah. Oh-ho!

Jim: Oh! Goal!

Charles: Aw, man, I can't wait to play with you.

Jim: Aw, it's gonna be the [softly] worst.

Ryan: Do you guys want to hear about Thailand?

Michael: Oh yeah.

Pam: Sure.

Ryan: It was indescribable.

Michael: Sounds awesome.

Pam: Beat.

Vikram: What sort of investing club is this?

Michal: Vikram, you ask a lot of questions and I like that. Hey, Nana! Hi!

Pam: [mouthing to camera] Nana?

Nana: Michael!

Michael: People turn to their families all the time when they need help starting out and if my Nana's investment club can help the Michael Scott Paper Company become a reality, then I'm sure that's what she would have wanted. Does want.

Michael: Well I'm sure that you must all have very, very busy schedules, so I appreciate you meeting with us here today. What this is is a business that I have worked toward my entire life. Hey! [snaps in front of sleeping old man] I have assembled what I believe to be the most exciting, sought-after talent in the industry today. Ladies and gentlemen, I present to you the dream team. From our very own Scranton, Pennsylvania - Pam Beesly. Pretty Pam is always reaching for the stars and someday, she may just surprise us all and grab one. Meet Vikram. From his humble beginnings as a - stay standing - from his humble beginnings as a prominent surgeon, he risked it all to become the most successful telemarketer in the lipophedrene industry. And do not call it a comeback. The youngest vice president in the history of Dunder Mifflin, and recent bowling alley employee, Ryan Howard is about to make a splash in paper.

Nana: So let's hear it.

Michael: Okay. I have spent the last 15 years learning the ins and outs of the paper industry. With a lean, mean fighting crew and low overhead, I think I can perform the same business at a much, much higher rate of profit.

Nana: How do you expect to turn a profit in this economy?

Michael: By wanting it more. By working hard-

Nana: What's your mission statement?

Michael: Mmmm-My mission is stated as follows[/b]: I will not be beat. I will never give up. I am on a mission. That is the Michael Scott guarantee.

Charles: C'mon, Oscar. What positions do people play?

Dwight: Wing.

Kevin: Wag.

Charles: Jim. What do you play?

Jim: Left.

Charles: Forward or half?

Jim: Forward, definitely.

Chares: Okay, striker, huh?

Jim: Striker!

Charles: Let's see what you got in those legs!

Jim: Alright! Let's do it.

Charles: Alright. [Dwight blows whistle in Jim's face] No, no, no. That's supposed to be the kickoff.

Jim: Kickoff. [to camera] My strategy is to touch the ball as little as possible. Chalk it up to teamwork. [to team] Alright! [clapping]

Michael: And I offer same day, free delivery.

Nana: Michael, I don't know about this.

Michael: Nana. [softly] I really think that Papa would want you to do this.

Nana: I'm not so sure.

Michael: Well what is it exactly? I mean, what, what specifically? We don't - it doesn't have to be paper. We could sell medicine and other...

Nana: See, this is what concerns me.

Old Woman: We could just give him a chance. It's not much money.

Michael: Well... this might not be the right time, but I need more than I originally asked for.

Nana: This isn't a handout club. It's an investment club!

Michael: Okay.

Nana: I love you, Michael. I do.

Michael: Okay.

Nana: But no. I mean it. No.

Vikram: I thought Nana raised some good questions. What kind of a name is Nana?

Pam: It means grandmother.

Vikram: Oh, sweet Jesus. Look, I'm sorry to do this, but can you drop me back at the telemarketing building?

Vikram: You know, Michael? You want to succeed? You got to apply the same- [Michael slams door]

Andy: Get 'im, Jim! C'mon, tough D, Jim. [Charles kicks, ball hits Phyllis in the nose]

Charles: Oh, my God! Oh wow. Jim, what the?

Oscar: Phyllis, Phyllis.

Charles: Phyllis, are you okay? Are, you okay?

Phyllis: [muffled] No, I swallowed a crown.

Charles: Why'd you duck, Jim?

Jim: What?

Dwight: Yeah, Jim. Why would an experienced soccer player like yourself duck at the very last moment?

Jim: Okay, I'm just gonna go get some ice.

Charles: Does that make you feel better? Huh?

Jim: I'm sorry, Phyllis.

Charles: Oh, yeah. Jim's sorry.

Ryan: Do you get TNT? The station? Do you get TNT?

Michael: Yeah. I have cable and satellite as a backup. [to Pam] Yeah, I know. Two not-so-great things in a row. Ehhhh, well. Stuff happens, right? At least we got Ryan. The Rye-guy. We should call him Rye bread. We don't have to call him that. Unless you like it. We could call him that.

Pam: I can't do this.

Michael: What's that?

Pam: I can't do this. I had a real job. I sat ten feet away from my fiance. I had health benefits. I was just feeling impulsive. I should have gotten a tiny tattoo on my ankle.

Michael: Blech.

Pam: I just keep getting bored. And I let things build up and build up and then I - I, I do something too big, like this. Who does this?

Michael: Well you know what? My mom always used to say that average people are the most special people in the world. And that's why God made so many.

Pam: We don't have any money. We don't have an office. We don't have anything.

Michael: Well we should make a list. Lists are good. Lists are good. Lists are good. First on the list, let's get you out of the car. Alright. [Pam tosses list out car window] Okay...

Pam: How come out of everyone in the office, I'm the only one that went with you? Is it because I'm that stupid? I mean, your own grandmother doesn't even believe in you!

Michael: I want you to listen to me. Because I want to tell you the situation that we are both in right now, kay? You quit your job. I quit my job. We both quit. Those are the facts. That's what happened. Now, what are our choices right now? Because you know, kiddo, you quit.

Pam: Yeah.

Michael: So what are our options? Well, we can start this paper company. We can try. Or... that's it. That's our only option. Because we quit. Pam, I do my best work when people don't believe in me. I remember in high school, my math teacher told me I was gonna flunk out. And know what I did? The very next day I went out and I scored more goals than anyone else in the history of the hockey team. See what I mean? I thrive on this. I thrive on it. So I'm gonna go inside. I'm going to make some calls, I'm gonna get us an office space, and I'm going to show you why you joined this company. Okay? [Pam nods]

Michael: You gotta have some extra space. Philly, work with me here. There's gotta be some sort of secret office that you have... lurkin' around... some awesome, free, keep it off the books... Oh, no. Not there. That would be humiliating.

Michael: I did what I had to do. I stepped in. I took charge. That's what being a man is. And earlier today, I was freaking out. Pam stepped up. She was the man. Don't think a woman can be a man? Well, then that's your stereotype, not mine.

Michael: [walks into room] Okay.

Pam: I could work here. I could see this.

Michael: It's right in the middle of the paper belt.

Pam: Are you good?

Michael: Yeah, I'm good. You good?

Pam: I'm good.

Michael: You know what they say, keep your friends close. [pointing to office sign where "Dunder Mifflin" is listed right above "Michael Scott Pap"]

Charles: Michael, you're back.

Michael: Yes, I am, Charles.

Charles: Mmmhmm.

Michael: Except this time, you have no legal right to kick me out, because I have started my very own paper company right here in the building. If I were you, Charles Miner, I would watch your step. Because the Michael Scott Paper Company is about to open a big ol' can of whoopass on Dunder Mifflin. [Pam and Michael stare him down, he walks away] Actually a six pack. We're gonna open a six pack of whoopass. He looks scared.

Jim: So, yesterday, Dwight found half a joint in the parking lot - which is unfortunate because, as it turns out, Dwight finding drugs is more dangerous than most people using drugs.

Ryan: I don't think Michael's ever done drugs...I don't know if anyone's ever offered him any...

Dwight: Oscar visited Mexico when he was five to attend his great-grandmother's funeral. What does that mean to a United States law enforcement officer? He's a potential drug mule.

Dwight: Do you know what this is?
Phyllis: Yes, it's marijuana.
Dwight: How do you know that?
Phyllis: It's labeled.

Creed: That is Northern Lights cannabis indica.
Dwight: No...it's marijuana.

Jim: I'm just saying...that you can't be sure that it wasn't you.
Dwight: That's ridiculous - of course it wasn't me!
Jim: Marijuana is a memory loss drug, so maybe you just don't remember...
Dwight: I would remember!
Jim: Well how could you if it just erased your memory?
Dwight: That's not how it works!
Jim: Now, how do you know how it works?
Dwight: Knock it off - I'm interviewing you!
Jim: No! You said I'd be conducting the interview when I walked in here - now exactly how much pot did you smoke?!

Jim: [Sighs] I'm having second thoughts about one of the shirts I packed. The blue one with the stripes.

Pam: I'm sure it's fine. it's a blue shirt.

Jim: Well, yeah, but I'm wondering if it's too blue. Like, am I making a statement with the blueness?

Jim: I am leaving early today for Philly, because tomorrow is the first day of my new job. So I figure I'd get in at 5:00, check into a hotel at about 6:00 so I can get a real good night of restless sleep and nervous puking.

Dwight: Uh, excuse me. Trying to get work done. Some people don't care about Jim's new sports job in Phila-Whatever.

Jim: So you know my job has something to do with sports, but you don't know the end of the word "Philadelphia"?

Dwight: Philadelphia. From the greek phila meaning "Love," and adelph, meaning "Adolf." "the city that loves Adolf." Good luck with your new enterprise and don't wear the blue striped shirt. It makes your neck look like an old mop handle.

[Pam looks at Jim and nods her head in agreement]

Erin: Oh...Hey, guys, the Christmas party is today. Merry Christmas everyone!

Angela: No.

Nellie: Is It?

Erin: I mean, it says "X-Mas party," but I think we all know what that's code for.

Kevin: So we're not going to have a Christmas party this year? Angela, how could you do this to us?

Angela: Oh, right, like I'm responsible 'cause I'm in charge of the party planning committee.

Kevin: Well, you are the one in charge of it.

Angela: Don't blame me for something we all forgot.

Oscar: Yeah, let's not blame her for something we all forgot.

Oscar: I didn't realize how many of Angela's opinions I agreed with, until she tried to have my kneecap shattered for sleeping with her husband. She makes a lot of very sound points.

Phyllis: I knew the party was today, but nobody asked me to plan it, so I didn't. Hmm, funny how that works.

Meredith: [Scoffs] We're out there sweating our balls off every day, bustin' our balls. We deserve a Christmas party!


Nellie: Well, then, why don't we just get some liquor and those mini-Cupcakes?

Kevin: Mini-Cupcakes? As in the mini version of regular cupcakes, which is already a mini version of cake? Honestly, where does it end with you people?

Dwight: What about an authentic Pennsylvania Dutch Christmas? Drink some gluhwein, enjoy some hasenpfeffer. Enjoy Christmas with saint Nicolas' rural German companion, Belsnickel.

Jim: Yes! That, that, that! We're definitely doing that. Are we all in agreement?

Kevin: No.

Angela: No!

Jim: Done, right?

Angela: No.

Stanley: No. I want Tropical Christmas.

Meredith: Topless Christmas.

Creed: Tapas swiss miss.

Creed: Spanish tapas, and swiss miss hot cocoa--What's so hard to understand?

Dwight: Or, who was it that suggested the authentic Pennsylvania Dutch Christmas? I think it was someone really popular.

Phyllis: We already said no.

Angela: No, no, no.

Nellie: Too weird.

Dwight: [Holds up a picture] This is me and my family celebrating Pennsylvania Dutch Christmas in 1982 on the farm. There's me and my brother Jeb breaking the ceremonial pig rib. He doesn't come back for Christmas anymore. The sepia tint is from an app on my phone. This is the same photo, matrix style.

Jim: I'm not understanding the confusion. Am I the only one who wants to try hufflepuffs and schnauzerhosen, and meet this glenpickle guy?

Angela: [Blows a weak whistle] Party planning cimmittee, emgergency meeting. Now.

Pam: I'm on it.

Jim: Right.

Pete: I'm just hoping German terrorists don't take over this Christmas party. Make me go all John McClane on their asses.

Erin: Wait, German terrorists? That's oddly specific. And I think--I think you mean John McCain.

Pete: Die hard reference.

Erin: I haven't seen it.

Pete: You haven't seen die hard?

Erin: Mm-Mmm.

Pete: Why haven't you seen die hard?

Erin: I don't know, I just haven't.

Kevin: Come on, you had to have at least seen some of it.

Erin: No.

Kevin: "now, i have a machine gun. Ho, ho, ho."

Pete: "Come out to the coast, we'll get together, have a few laughs."

Erin: None of this makes any sense to me!

Kevin: Oh, yeah, and when he takes the gun off his back, and he's like, "Yippie-Ki-Yay, mother--"

Pete: Actually, he doesn't say that there. He says it earlier when he's on the radio with Hans.

Kevin: Yes, you are right. Forgive me.

Pete: Oh, that's okay, bud.

Kevin: Nope. [Kevin walks out the door into the kitchen]

Pete: Common mistake.

Kevin: No, it's not.

Erin: [Points and Pete] Nerd! Do you know every line of the movie?

Pete: My brother dared me to memorize it, and I did it, and loved doing it.

Erin: Okay, let's hear it.

Pete: Hear what?

Erin: Die hard. Every line. Go.

Pete: "You don't like flying, do you?"

Erin: Don't change the subject.

Pete: No, that's the--

Erin: Movie is starting.

Jim: [In Kitchen] We're thinking of collaborating with Mike Schmidt on some of his charity work.

Stanley: I love Philly. Dirty town.

Darryl: [Comes up behind Jim and puts his hands on Jim's shoulders] Ah-Ha-Ha! Philly! Exciting stuff, man.

Jim: Whoo!

Darryl: So you sure you remembered everything for your trip?

Jim: Yeah, I think so.

Darryl: Think that through for a sec.

Darryl: Yeah, Jim's going to philly tomorrow. He said he was gonna take me with him, but that was two months ago. And I haven't heard anything since. I mean, he said that, right?

Darryl: What else could you possibly be forgetting?

Jim: Uh--

Darryl: Things? People?

[Jim chuckles nervously]

Toby: You know who's not gonna get to work on some exciting new startup this year? George Howard Skub, a.k.a. the alleged Scranton strangler, because he's in prison [Jim and Daryl walk out of the kitchen] for something he may not have done.

Nellie: I'm sorry, the--Uh, the Scranton who?

Toby: The Scranton strangler. George Howard Skub. Haven't I told you about the jury I was on a couple years ago?

Nellie: [Gasps] Oh, what happened? I mean, if you can talk about it, obviously. Because if you can't, I mean, I understand.

[Stanley gets up and leaves]

Toby: I--I could--I could talk about it.

Stanley: [Pats Nellie on the shoulder as he's walking by her] See you next Christmas.

Toby: I could, sure. Have a seat. I would start at the beginning, but I think I need to go farther back.

Pam: We're the party planning committee, and we did not get where we are by playing it safe. We got here by being risk takers. And, yeah, Dwight's party is gonna be terrible. Maybe. Maybe it's not. Maybe it's going to be great. And if it's great...I think we all know what that would mean to us.

Phyllis: Let's do it!

Pam: Yes! Phyllis!

Angela: No. I don't want my name attached to this party.

Pam: What does that even mean? Where would your name appear?


Angela: Please just take my name off of everything.

Oscar: Just take her name off of everything.

[Party Planning Committee walks out of The Conference Room]

Pam: [Clears her throat] The party planning committee, minus Angela, has decided that we're all going to do Dwight's Christmas.

Dwight: Yes! Yeah! [High Fives Jim] Yeah! Okay! Yes! It's a Christmas Miracle! [High Fives Pam] Yeah! Whoo-Hoo!

Pam: Dwight, there is one rule that you need to take very seriously.

Dwight: Uh-huh.

Pam: And that is...

Dwight: Uh, Oh.

Pam: That there are no rules.

Dwight: You have never been cooler.

Jim: Best Christmas ever.

Pam: You're welcome.

Jim: Thank you.

Dwight: [Plays a trumpet] And Pennsylvania Dutch Christmas has officially begun.

Meredith: Ugh. What is this stuff, lava?

Dwight: That is gluhwein, otherwise known as glow-wine, also used to sterilize medical instruments. And, interesting factoid, this is the very spoon that guided my soft skull through the birth canal when I was born. Enjoy.

Pam: What is it? [Jim lifts the hog maw with a fork] Don't touch it.

Dwight: [Comes running up at startles Pam] Somebody's found the hog maw.

Pam: Oh!

Dwight: What? It's a Pennsylvania Dutch specialty. Hog maw. That's a beauty, isn't it? I don't even want to tell you what it's made of until after you try it.

Stanley: Ugh. I'm not eating mystery meat.

Dwight: It is stuffed pig stomach. And, after we finish it, we get to break the pig rib.

Jim: Can't wait.

Meredith: Weird. Where are the sugar cookies? Where's the karaoke machine?

Dwight: This is austere, Meredith. This is celebrating Christmas for all of the right reasons. The cookies and toys and sweets are mere distractions. I mean, most people don't even know that a candy cane represents a Shepherd's Crook, which I assure you does not taste like peppermint. It tastes like sheep feces.

Oscar: How would anyone even know--

Dwight: Have you ever tasted a Shepherd's Crook?

Jim: I don't know. Is it what you expected?

Pam: I feel like [Pam look's out the window and camera pans out in The Office]--Dwight is holding a candle and reading a poem.

Jim: So happy right now.

[Jim and Pam get up and run out into The Office]

Dwight: [Speaking German] Wait, what is that I hear? Is someone on the roof? How strange. [Blows out the candle] Excuse me. I have to run to my car to take a dump.

Kevin: I wish my car had a bathroom.

Pete: "Let Heinrich plant the detonators and Theo prepare the vault. After that--"

Erin: [On a computer, checking the script] Eh. That wasn't the line. I'm sorry, Pete.

Pete: That is transcribed by some fan. They make mistakes.

Erin: I don't know. This looks pretty legit. [Erin's cell phone chimes] Oh, my gosh. I just got an email from Andy. That means they hit land.

Erin: [Reading the email from Andy] "What up, shorty? We got in last night, sold the boat, went out, got drunk, saw life of pi, got super depressed and introspective. Gonna hang out here a while. Maybe a couple of weeks. Figure this whole life thing out. Maybe see hobbit. Lates."

[Erin walks back to Pete and sits down at the computer]

Pete: Hey. Everything okay?

Erin: So what comes next?

Pete: Right, um, okay. So he says, uh, [Pete stands up] "After we call the police, they'll waste hours trying to negotiate--"

Erin: We should just watch the movie. That makes much more sense.

Pete: Or we can just sit and talk, though.

Erin: No. No more talking. It's movie time.

Pete: I mean, are you sure...Um, yeah, I probably have a copy or two in my car.

Erin: Oh, great. Great! So we're watching die hard, now. Good! This is a good plan.

Pete: Okay.

Toby: [To Nellie in the kitchen] Here's the thing about moonlight. It's not sunlight.



Kevin: [With his mouth full] I love this hog mama.

Phyllis: Dwight said it's "Hog maw."

Kevin: [Chokes and spits it out] What is maw?!

[Dwight walks in as Belsnickel]

Phyllis: It's the lining of the stomach of--

Dwight: [Cackling] Ohh...[In a German Accent] Judgment is nigh, for the belsnickel ist I!

Jim: Yes, he is finally nigh.

Dwight: I am nigh!

Dwight: Every year, my grandfather would dress up as belsnickel at Christmas. He was...okay at it. I am great. You know how they say some people were born to be bad? Well, I was born to be belsnickel.

Dwight: Ooh, belsnickel has traveled from distant lands to discover how all the boys and the girls have been behaving this last year. Whoo hoo HOO hoo hoo! [Runs over to Stanley and points at his stomach with a stick] Ohh...Too much strudel.

Jim: So he's kind of like santa, except dirty and worse.

Dwight: No, much better--No one fears santa the way they fear belsnickel.

Jim: Wow! It's my favorite part of Christmas. The authority.

Pam: And the fear.

Dwight: Yes, exactly!

Phyllis: Come on, Dwight, you're making this up.

Dwight: No.

Oscar: [Reading from his phone] This is a real thing. "Belsnickel is a crotchety, fur-clad gift giver related to other companions of st. Nicholas in the folklore of southwestern Germany."

Angela: Huh.

Pam: Wow.

Dwight: Okay, great. Seriously, you guys? Now you believe in Dwight's traditions, when some democrat looks it up on wikipedia?

Oscar: [Continues reading] "His partner, zwarte piet, or black Peter, a slave boy, often portrayed in colorful pantaloons and blackface."

Stanley: Uh-Uh. No, Dwight. No.

Dwight: Oh, come on. We don't blindly stick to every outmoded aspect of our traditions. Come on, get with the spirit of it, you guys. [Texts warehouse worker, Nate, to forget showing up as zwarte piet]

[Nate starts walking towards the door, gets the text, and walks back to his car]

[Pete and Erin watching die hard on a computer]

Pete: Okay, Karl was actually a ballet dancer in real life. Isn't that crazy?

Erin: Mm. [Chuckles]

[Daryl drinking the gluhwein in his office, with some alcohol mixed in]

Darryl: [Talks drunk angry] Jim, that guy. [Scoffs] You gotta stick to your word! Like when you say something to a buddy, a real buddy...what are you gonna do, lie? To your buddy? [Sighs] It's awful.

Dwight: Take a bowl and pass it down.

Phyllis: Thank you, Dwight. These are nice.

Dwight: No, these are gift bowls. When you recieve a gift, it will go in the bowl, but the bowls must be returned at the end. They're a set. Now, hold your bowls forward. The belsnickel will decide if you are impish or admirable.

Jim: Oh, it's like naughty or nice.

Dwight: No, impish or admirable.

Jim: Quick question--Do you just decide who gets what in the moment, or did you make a list?

Dwight: I decided earlier.

Jim: Oh, nice. Did you check that list?

Dwight: Of course I checked it.

Jim: But more than once? 'cause you could have made a mistake.

Dwight: I checked it more than once.

Jim: Okay, so you made a list, you checked it twice, and now you're gonna find out who's--

Dwight: Impish or admirable.

Jim: Damn.

Dwight: Phyllis Vance! Cheer or fear? Belsnickel is here! I judge your year as...admirable. [Jim claps] There you are.

Phyllis: [Takes here gift out of her bowl] Oh. What are these?


Dwight: It's a set of rubber gaskets for canning jars.

Phyllis: I'd rather have the bowl.

Dwight: You can't have the bowl! Oscar Martinez, cheer or fear? Belsnickel is here! I judge your year [looks over at Angela, then back to Oscar]...as impish! [Smacks Oscar with a stick]

[Angela smiles smugly]

Oscar: Ow! You hit people with that thing?

Dwight: No, I'm carrying around the stick in order to look cool. For the kinder [puts a mouse trap in Pam's bowl]

Jim: Ooh.

Pam: [Holds the mouse trap up] Mouse trap.

[While Dwight is decided on others, he puts canning jars in Angela's bowl, and a twig in Stanley's, then a normal talking head]

Dwight: In a head-to-head contest, people prefer belsnickel over santa every time. There aren't as many songs about him, but I attribute that more to rhyming difficulties. My brother and I wrote one once. it was about a fickle pickle salesman who would tickle you for a nickel.

[Kevin giggles as Dwight is poking him with a stick for being impish]

Jim: Oh, you know what? I gotta go.

Dwight: Stop giggling.

Pam: Oh, really? Already?

Jim: Yeah, it's all right.

Dwight: It's a punishment. [Turns to Jim] Hey, where are you going?

Jim: I have to go to philly. But this was amazing. Okay.

Dwight: But you work tomorrow.

Jim: Yeah, I know, I'd just like to settle in and get a good night's sleep.

Dwight: But we were gonna break the pig rib.

Jim: Ooh.

Dwight: Remember?

Jim: That's right.

Dwight: No matter! Belsnickel cares not about this--off with you!

Jim: Perfect. Merry Christmas, everybody.

Dwight: Wait, wait, wait, wait! Don't you want to know your present?

Jim: You know what? Yeah. Have at it.

Dwight: Jim Halpert. Cheer or fear? Belsnickel is here! [Jim holds his hands like a bowl] I judge your year as impish. [Hits Jim with stick]

Jim: Ooh! Are you nuts?

Dwight: [Hits Jim three more times] I judge you impish!

Jim: Ow! Ow! Okay, that is three, and you didn't hit anybody that hard.


Dwight: They're not abandoning the party. [Hit's Jim again]

Jim: Just--Just--Hey!

[Dwight hits him again]

Jim: [As he's walking out] That's enough, I'm done! Okay? Agh!

Dwight: [Hits Jim some more] Impish! [Chases Jim out]

Jim: Aah! Ow!

Meredith: Belsnickel, I gotta run out early too. [Leans up against the wall as Dwight comes back in]

[Everyone groans. And in his office, Daryl continues to drink the gluhwein]

Jim: [In the parking lot, holding his side, walking to the taxi, Pam follows] Oh...what was that? Now I'm gonna be all whipped for my first day at work. God. [To taxi driver] One second. Oh...

Pam: Well...this is it.

Jim: I'm probably never gonna see you again.

Pam: Shut up. I'm trying to be serious.

Jim: Okay, sorry, sorry.

Pam: I can't believe this is actually happening.

Jim: Listen, thank you so much for putting that all together. That was the perfect last Christmas party. All right, wish me luck.

Pam: Okay. [Jim and Pam hug] Good luck. You're gonna be great.

Jim: I'll call you when I get in.

Pam: Okay.

Jim: All right.

Pam: Love you.

Jim: Love you.

[Jim gets in taxi and it drives away]

Pam: What's going on?

Dwight: Party's over. You quit on Christmas, Christmas quits on you. [To camera] And guess what, kids. Belsnickel isn't real. It's me, Dwight! [Takes off hat and beard]

[Everyone putting up normal Christmas decorations as Phyllis has a talking head]

Phyllis: We found some old decorations in the warehouse. Oscar ran to the store for some food and drink, and I dipped into my stash of eggnog. I guess they needed me after all. It's like in it's a wonderful life when Jimmy Stewart realizes that all thos people at the building and loan were just jerks, and he was the real hero.

[Kevin dressed up as Santa, helps Angela down from hanging lights]

Angela: Kevin. Kevin! Aaah. Stop it!

Nellie: Oh, it sounds like the party's starting up out there.

Toby: Yeah. So anyway, the entire jury wants me to vote guilty. But then I did a little research of my own, and forget everything you thought you knew about fingerprinting.

Darryl: Meredith's a little cute. I'm just realizing. She got, like, a Emma Stone thing.

[Daryl comes out of the conference room and starts dancing. Meredith joins him]

Darryl: [At Meredtith] Boo!

Pam: For what it's worth, I liked your party better.

Dwight: Everyone thought the food was gross, and that belsnickel was some darkly erotic freak.

Pam: I don't think anyone thought that.

Dwight: Jim couldn't even stay till the end of the party.

Pam: Well, that didn't have anything to do with you.

Dwight: I don't care. Guess how much I care on a scale of one to ten.

Pam: Zero.

Dwight: Damn It!

Darryl: I'm gonna tell Jim to go [Bleep] himself.

Erin: Do you think Andy would ever jump off an exploding building tied to a hose for me?

Pete: Yeah. Definitely. [Erin starts to cry] Hey, what's--Oh, no, come here. [Starts to put his arm around Erin] Hey, hey. Come on, huh?

Erin: [Sliding away from Pete] I'm still Andy's girlfriend.

Pete: Oh, yeah, of course. I know.

Erin: But you can leave your arm.

[Pete puts his arm back around Erin as she slides closer to him]

[Back at the party, Angela sits on Kevin's lap, everyone talking and enjoying the party]

Pam: Dwight, want me to get you some eggnog?

Dwight: No, thanks. I'll just have another dumatril. Jim taught me this really cool way to take it. You crush it into a powder, and you snort it up your butt.

Jim: [Walks back into The Office] Yep, I did say that.

Pam: Jim!

Jim: What's going on? Where's the belsnickel?

Pam: Oh--Oh my god!

[Pam goes to hug Jim, but Dwight runs and hugs Jim first]

Jim: What are you doing? Last time I saw you, you were whipping me out of the building.

Dwight: [Holds his finger to Jim's lips] Shh. Let's not speak of that. The Pig Rib! We could totally break the pig rib! I'm gonna dig it out of the trash! [High fives Jim]

Pam: What happened? Did you miss your bus?

Jim: No. I just missed my wife.[Gives Pam a hug and a kiss]

Dwight: [Comes back in, holding up the pig rib] I found it!

Jim: And I found out that there's a bus at 5:00 a.m.

[All cheering and chanting as Jim and Dwight try and break the pig rib]

Dwight: Oh! [Pig rib breaks and Jim wins, and stuff splatters people. Everyone groans] Damn It! Jim got the bigger half.

[Jim fist bumps Kevin and holds up the pig rib. Daryl sits in his office]

Darryl: [To himself] Back for more, huh? [Gets up and walks towards Jim]

Jim: Ooh, nog it. Let me get some nog. [Everyone talking Phyllis pours Jim some eggnog, as Daryl walks in] Thanks, Phyllis. Where's Andy?

Darryl: You!

Jim: Oh, hey, man. [Daryl walks over to Jim, angrily and stares at Jim] Oh, you know what? Before I forget again, I talked to the guys about hiring you. They're gonna bring you in for an interview.

Darryl: [Looking at Jim confused] That's great.

Jim: Right?

Darryl: Thanks, man.

Jim: Hey, of course.

Darryl: I shall come by at your convenience.

Jim: Thank you, sir. [Tips his glass to Daryl]

Darryl: [Claps his hands once, spins around] Whoo!

Jim: Go get 'em.

Darryl: [Falls backwards onto the food table] Oh! Whoa!

[Everyone shouts alarmidly]

Dwight: Very impish.

[Nellie and Toby back in the kitchen, Nellie looks bored and standing against the fridge. Toby walking around]

Toby: Two dimes, seven nickels--Well, okay, no, that doesn't add up. It was one quarter and--

Nellie: Shh. [Puts her finger to Toby's lips]

Toby: What? I was just explaining--

Nellie: Shh.

Toby: Why wouldn't it--

Nellie: [Put her finger to his lips again] Shh.

Toby: But why?

Nellie: No...more...talking.

Toby: Are you gonna kiss me?

Nellie: Yes. [Kisses Toby]

[Toby takes his glasses off and him and Nellie go against fridge and start to make out]


Pam: We could get Deangelo flowers.

Dwight: No, you can't get flowers for someone who's in a coma. They'll wilt before he wakes up.

Phyllis: That's true.

Jim: All in favor of the baskets full of chocolates, teddy bears, and balloons? [all but Dwight raise their hands]

Dwight: Wait, wait. All in favor of the knapsack filled with canned goods, chainsaw, gasoline, and emergency radio in case he wakes up post-apocalypse? [Dwight raises his hand]

Jim: Nope. Baskets have it.

Jim: So as it turns out, unless you're a young child or a prison inmate, you don't need anyone supervising you. People just come in and do their work on their schedule. Imagine that - people like us allowed to sell paper. Unsupervised. [Darryl, Phyllis, Stanley, and Oscar are working while Andy and Ryan play on a foosball table] And yet, somehow it works. It must be because the stakes are so high.

Jim: [on phone] Well, I really appreciate the offer, but I'm just happy the way things are. Okay. Thank you. [to Pam] That was Jo, asking me if I wanted to take over as acting manager while they find a replacement. I told her... I don't want to mess this up, right? There's a consensus, people are happy.

Dwight: [on phone] Dwight Schrute. Yes, I would. Thank you. [hangs up] Jordan, gather my things from my desk. [Dwight walks to the manager's office, rubs the door frame, sits at the desk reverently]

Jim: Wait...

Pam: What have you done?

Dwight [on phone]: Mose... you'll never guess where I am right now.

Mose [on phone]: Aaaaahhhhh!

Pam: Can't stay there all day.

Jim: I'm coming.

Pam: Do I at least get to go with you in this fantasy?

Jim: You'd slow me down.

Jim: Dwight has been acting manager for three months now. No. A week. Just feels like three months. Let's see, we all have to punch in to a time clock, which is very old, very strong, and has a slot about the size of a finger. [Jim puts a pencil into the time clock and pulls it out broken in half] We were all given new business cards big enough to set us apart from the competition, which is how I learned that our titles are all now Junior Employee. Our lunch breaks are staggered to prevent wasting time. Mine's at 10:30, and I find that the first hour of the day goes by a lot quicker than the second seven hours.

Pam: Stop stalling! Come on.

All: I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the republic for which it stands, one nation...

All but Oscar: ...under God...

All: ...indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. [Kevin finishes behind the rest of the group]

Angela: Amen.

Dwight: Excellent. Morning announcements! There's been a problem with some people sharing copier codes. Your copier code is a distinct 21-digit number that is unique to you, and you only, okay? Don't share it. [Kevin looks exasperated] Jo Bennett, our CEO, will be here today for a high-level meeting involving Gabe and myself.

Erin: Ooh, about what?

Dwight: That's on a need-to-know basis.

Erin: I thought I needed to know for your calendar.

Dwight: [quietly] General meet-and-greet. So I expect you to be on your best behavior, which means none of you will be insubordinate, nor will you foment insurrection.

Jim: Question, if we already fomented insurrection, may we be grandfathered in?

Dwight: Define foment.

Jim: You define foment.

Dwight: [clears throat] Please take note of the new color-coding system.

Dwight: [surprising Kelly] Aha!

Kelly: Oh my God, what is wrong with you?

Dwight: Gotcha! Why are you late?

Kelly: It's none of your business, actually. It's very medical and personal.

Dwight: All right. You stop me when I reach the diseased area. [Dwight points to her legs and slowly moves his finger up, stopping at her mid-section]

Andy: In fairness, Darryl did tell me that joke, so...

Erin: Oh! Darryl's funny.

Andy: I know, right?

Gabe: Hey, Andy?

Andy: Yeah?

Gabe: Can I talk to you a second about these client memos?

Andy: Sure. What's going on? [in room with Gabe]

Gabe: Are you still in love with Erin?

Andy: What?

Gabe: Because I am. I need to get her back. [crying] I can't be alone anymore. Andy, do you like being alone with me right now?

Andy: No, this is horrifying.

Gabe: No. I don't like being alone with me either, okay? I have to get her back. Are you still gonna date her?

Andy: We're just friends, okay?

Gabe: Do you promise that?

Andy: Yeah, fine, I promise. We'll never date again. Can we go outside now?

Gabe: No, just give me a second. I don't want anyone to know I've been crying.

Dwight: [seeing the Join the Fist flyers that Jim is hanging] Hey, hey, hey, hey. What do you think you're doing? What's this? What's the Fist?

Jim: Oh, it's just a social club. You know, like the French Revolution, or the Black Panthers, or communism. It's just a club. Guys talking, you know.

Dwight: You expect me to believe that you're starting a rebellion?

Jim: Nope. Social club. God, I hate when everybody calls us a rebellion. [Darryl enters and brandishes his fist, Jim returns the gesture]

Dwight: Okay, you know what? I would love to join The Fist.

Jim: And we would love to have you. But not today. Unfortunately, it's a bad day, what with Operation Overthrow and everything, but I have noted it. [Dwight tears the sign down, Jim hangs two signs in its place]

Kevin: [inputting numbers into the copier and holding up the line] One...

Stanley: [refills his coffee near a sign that reads "Honor System[/b]: $0.50" with a camera pointed at it]

Andy: Pam, I have to show you this video. You're gonna love it. It's Beyonce falling with a fart mixed in. [buzzer to indicate a blocked web site]

Dwight: I will never be happier than I am right now. I will also never be less happy. I will be at my current maximum happiness for the rest of my life. Because I am manager of the Scranton Branch of Dunder Mifflin. Acting Manager.

Kevin: [looking at empty vending machine] No food now? Someone has to do something about Dwight!

Creed: He put some snacks in the freezer for us.

Pam: You mean the frozen mice for the piranha?

Creed: No. The blueberry Slurpee pouch.

Phyllis: He means the ice pack.

Erin: [on phone] 2:00 should probably be okay. I can either take your number or - [Gabe ends the call]

Gabe: I'm sorry. This can't wait.

Erin: He's just gonna call back.

Gabe: Erin, I am in love with you. I don't believe in much, okay? I don't believe in horoscopes. I don't believe in Christmas. Uh, uh, I sure as hell don't believe in God. [Erin and Angela both look taken aback]

Erin: [quietly] What?

Gabe: Or maybe there's a God. I don't know. I mean, it's just not a guy with a long white beard. [Erin looks shocked] Or it could be. I mean, it's possible that that is exactly what - what God is. But for all of the disbelief [phone rings] I believe in us. I believe in love. You have made me believe that for all of the hokum [phone continues ringing] out... there... uh, do we not have voicemail?

Erin: Dwight doesn't trust robots to give us our messages.

Gabe: Well... it's just... [ringing] it messes up my rhythm.

Erin: I'm taking a break from dating. Gabe was a great guy with so many wonderful qualities, but it was a challenge being touched by him.

Jim: Wow, you've really embraced the whole Bond villain aesthetic.

Dwight: Ah, Jim, Jim, Jim. The gun is a Beaumont-Adams. Jo collects them. I thought we could have some nice small talk about it. And the piranha's a rescue.

Jim: And the desk.

Dwight: The desk is a replica of Uday Hussein's desk. I saw a picture in Newsweek. Listen, I'm a very busy man. Let's get right down to business.

Jim: Okay.

Dwight: Jo is coming later today. I cannot have a subordinate trying to make me look stupid. Okay? I need you to promise me that you'll be on your best behavior.

Jim: I promise...d other people that I would be on my worst behavior. And I gave them my word, so...

Dwight: Don't make me fire you.

Jim: You can't fire me. You're acting manager. Not office manager. So you have no firing powers.

Dwight: Don't make me pre-fire you.

Jim: You wouldn't dare.

Dwight: Watch this. You're pre-fired. And when I'm promoted, you'll be full fired.

Jim: [quietly] If you get promoted, and if you haven't fallen in love with me by then.

Dwight: What?

Jim: If I had thought that there was a real chance that Dwight would be permanent manager, I would have pre-quit. And you might be saying to yourself, "Well that's pretty premature to think," but I always say, it's better to be pre-pre-preprepared.

Dwight: How you doing, Jordan?

Jordan: I'm good.

Dwight: Everyone here thinks that you're a joke. They think that you were hired because of your good looks, which won't last long anyway. As your pale skin and severe bone structure imply, you'll age swiftly and poorly.

Jordan: Why are you telling me this?

Dwight: Now I want you to find out what people are saying about me, things they don't want me to know abou-[Dwight opens a box and sits down in shock] Ohh... it's a holster.

Dwight: [walking around the office with the holster around his waist] Yep. Yep, yep, yep. Lookin' good. [grunts] Ohh... [stretching out his arms to better indicate the gun and holster] Oh, what a day. What a day.

Pam: Dwight, are you carrying a gun?

Dwight: The holster was a gift from my great-uncle Honk. Um, I don't know. I guess he's saying that he's proud of me.

Andy: Dwight, guns make me really uncomfortable.

Dwight: The gun is just an accessory to the holster, okay? I can't walk around wearing an empty holster.

Pam: Why do you need to wear the holster at all?

Dwight: Why do you need to keep wearing those booby shirts all the time?

Angela: Thank you.

Phyllis: You could put your cell phone in it instead.

Dwight: Uh... hello! [indicates his phone clipped onto his belt]

Kevin: You could put a banana in it.

Dwight: Why would I put a banana in my holster?

Kevin: In case you weren't hungry now, but you got hungry later.

Pam: Dwight, no gun, okay? Don't make us call Jo.

Dwight: Okay. All right. Fine. Everyone calm down. Someone get me a banana. Sorry I freaked you guys out - aah! [Dwight goes to flip the gun and it fires near Andy's ear, making everyone jump]

Erin: Andy!

Andy: Aah! Aah! It's so loud!

Oscar: My God. There is a hardwood floor underneath this carpeting. Why would they do that?

Andy: [trying to find a pitch] Eeeeeeee... There's like this crazy ringing going on. I can't - eeeeeee... I can't find perfect C.

Meredith: Okay, everyone make a list of what's lost for the insurance. I lost a necklace, a ring, a painting-

Toby: Hey, what happened?

Kelly: Dwight went on a shooting spree, and then he shot Andy in the head.

Dwight: No, no, no. All we know is that a gun fired. That's all we know! No. That's not true. Actually, we heard a loud noise. Later, a hole was seen. No one saw the bullet leave the gun.

Andy: [scatting off-key] Something's definitely wrong.

Oscar: I'll look on WebMD. What are your symptoms?

Angela: Oh, everybody. Oscar found a reason to look on WebMD.

Oscar: [buzzer to indicate a blocked site] Firewall.

Gabe: I can't reach Jo. She must already be on the plane.

Dwight: Okay, why are you calling Jo?

Andy: I think I should go the hospital.

Erin: I'll go with you.

Gabe: No! We really shouldn't be without a receptionist. Now more than ever.

Darryl: I'll take him.

Andy: Thank you, Darryl. [Andy limps out of his chair and leans on Darryl for support]

Darryl: What's wrong with you?

Andy: It's my ear.

Darryl: Yeah.

Andy: Okay, sorry.

Toby: [excitedly] Oh, I should get the accident report binder. I've never used the gun violence forms before.

Gabe: I'm gonna keep trying Jo.

Dwight: Okay, everyone! Conference room, right now!

Dwight: [enters with a cowboy hat, speaking with a Western accent] Yee-haw! Whoo-hoo! [imitates gunfire] Howdy, partners! It's me, Gun-Safety Dwight! And I'm the rootin'-est-- [removes hat] I can't do this. Um, look. Obviously, a gun went off under my watch, and I'm launching a full investigation.

Stanley: We all saw you do it.

Dwight: Really? You did? What hand was I holding the gun in? What did Andy's tie look like?

Erin: Navy blue. Little red anchors.

Dwight: I have no way of knowing if that's true.

Toby: I am supposed to collect eyewitness accounts. Who saw Dwight do this? [all raise their hands]

Dwight: Okay, really?

Toby: Would you consider this a terrorist incident?

Ryan: I felt terrorized.

Dwight: Come on.

Toby: Oh, there's a whole 'nother terrorism booklet for that.

Dwight: I just really, really think we should handle this internally.

Ryan: Dwight, why is it on us to protect you?

Dwight: Because you guys are my best friends, and I mean that. Managing you for this last week has been the greatest honor of my life. And if you ruin this, I will burn this office to the ground. And I mean that figuratively. Not literally. Because you guys are so... so important... to me. I love you guys. But don't cross me. But you're the best.

Andy: Hey. [Erin gasps] We're back.

Dwight: There he is! Our hero! [Both Dwight and Erin move to hug Andy] You look fantastic. How you doing? Here, tell us your war stories.

Andy: Well, I burst my eardrum. Doctor said it could take weeks to heal.

Dwight: Did they say what caused it? Because I know you like putting Q-tips deep into your ear canal.

Andy: Yeah.

Phyllis: How's your hearing?

Andy: Temporary deafness in one ear. It was both ears. I couldn't hear a thing Darryl was saying while we were in the waiting room.

Darryl: I was talking like this. [mouths words while pointing to his ear] I don't feel good about it, but he just kept calling himself a gunshot victim and it got to me.

Kelly: Dwight, I would like tomorrow off so that I can go on my American Idol audition.

Dwight: American Idol? What? No.

Kelly: Okay. I guess I can just not go. Do you guys wanna hear my solo?

Dwight: No.

Kelly: [singing] Why did my temporary boss go on a shooting spree?

Dwight: Okay, fine. You can go on your singing audition.

Phyllis: Okay, well, then I want an extra vacation day.

Angela: Pet Day! I want Pet Day back - no dogs.

Kevin: Put back everything in the vending machine except the fruit.

Dwight: I put everything back in the vending machine.

Kevin: Put everything back in the vending machine except... the fruit.

Pam: You have to get rid of all your weapons. All of them. Including killer fish.

Dwight: Okay.

Jim: Oh, is it my turn? Ooh, I'm on the spot. I don't know. Um... you know what? I think I'm good.

Dwight: Thank God.

Jim: Nope. When Jo's here, can you work in "Shagadelic, baby," at least three times in a conversation? Oh, and when I cough can you do jazz hands?

Dwight: What's jazz hands?

Jim: [quickly shakes his hands back and forth]

Dwight: Fine.

Dwight: [leaves the men's room with an empty fish tank after flushing the toilet]

Kevin: [after entering the men's room] What the [bleep] is that? [runs out of the bathroom] Oh, my...

Jo: Hey, all! Cornelius, Bobo, have at it. Nobody let my dogs hump each other. They don't seem to know they're brothers.

Dwight: Hello, Jo. Welcome. Well, shall we begin?

Jo: Slow yourself down there. Just like a man. Wants to jump right into it while I still got my socks on. Jim Halpert - the only man that ever turned me down.

Jim: Well, I don't know about that. Just wasn't for me. But let me assure you, Dwight is firing on all cylinders. Right?

Jo: Well, some pretty big shoes to fill. I was sorry to hear about Deangelo. He was a good man. Tragic. [Jim coughs]

Dwight: [does jazz hands, Jo notices and eyes him oddly] Well, what can you do? Life.

Andy: We have to clean this up now!

Erin: She had so much -

Gabe: Hey, guys.

Erin: Hey.

Gabe: Hope I'm not interrupting anything.

Andy: No! [Erin and Andy laugh]

Gabe: Hey, Andy, did you tell Erin about our conversation earlier when you said you would never want to date her again?

Andy: Uh...

Gabe: I just thought that it was so interesting that you promised that.

Andy: Did I say that earlier? Yes, I did. Because you, Gabe, were crying...

Gabe: No, I was not.

Andy: And sobbing uncontrollably. Yes. Uh-huh. You were in hysterics. And my maternal instincts kicked in. Is it actually how I feel? Yes. Or no. That is... between me and my diary.

Dwight: Oscar, can you print out last year's sale statements?

Kevin: Hey, Dwight, gimme a back massage.

Dwight: No, Kevin, come on.

Kevin: My back is sore, Dwight. Massage it.

Dwight: Kevin, not now.

Kevin: Hey, Jo!

Dwight: Okay, okay. Shh! [Dwight begins rubbing his shoulders]

Kevin: No, under the jacket.

Dwight: You're kidding me. [reaches under Kevin's jacket] Oh God, what am I touching? It's moist.

Kevin: I don't feel anything.

Dwight: Oh, it's so wet.

Kevin: Push harder, Dwight.

Dwight: I can't. I can't push harder!

Kevin: Go a little higher. There you go. Nope, higher. Higher. [Dwight has positioned his feet on the filing cabinet behind Kevin and is kneading his back horizontally]

Dwight: Okay, how's that?

Kevin: Knead it. Knead it like a pizza.

Dwight: I'm kneading it!

Kevin: Don't eat it.

Jo: Dwight! Walk me out. Let's talk soon. And stay on top of these people. You gotta admit it - it's nice to have a little power, eh? How's it feel?

Dwight: Jo... I accidentally fired a gun in the office today.

Jo: What?!

Dwight: I am telling you this because I care too much about this job to be blackmailed into doing it poorly. All I've ever wanted was to be manager here. And if you feel that you cannot promote me over this one accident, I understand. But if you think that extortion is worse -

Jo: Shooting is worse! Are you kidding me? It's not even in the same - you shot a gun? What is wrong with you?

Dwight: It was a Beaumont-Adams, if that helps.

Jo: Beaumont-Adams is a girl's gun. That just makes it plain stupid.

Dwight: I take full responsibility.

Jo: Who else would be responsible?

Dwight: Pam made me put a banana in my holster.

Pam: You shot a gun off -

Dwight: Okay. Did I make a mistake? Yes. Do I regret the decision that I made? Yes.

Jo: Oh, stop asking yourself easy questions so you can look like a genius.

Dwight: Got it.

Jo: I love you, Dwight. But you don't fit this job.

Dwight: [on the verge of tears] Jo, please... I will -

Jo: No, child. No. It's over. Now I gotta find a replacement for my replacement.

Jo: You three are my search committee. You're in charge of finding me my next manager. All righty?

Gabe: Yep.

Jim: Yep.

Jo: Till then, we need a new acting manager. Now, who's got the most experience in this office?

Toby: Uh, well, we probably don't want to go just on seniority.

Jo: Who is it?

Jim: Hey, Dwight. What's up?

Dwight: Shut up.

Jim: Well, you do know that Jo was right to take the job away from you, right? There's no debating that. But, I will say... in your one week, every single one of the orders went out on time. And I think that is shagadelic, baby. [Dwight sees Creed claiming the desk in the manager's office]

Angela: [giving Kevin numbers for the copier] Four, one, seven, one...

Kevin: Another one?

Darryl and Angela: Yes!

Angela: Seven, two...

Oscar: Could you turn the volume down on the beeping?

Angela: Six, nine, shut up, Oscar. Eight...

Darryl: Nine first.

Angela: Nine, eight, five...

Kevin: Thank you.

Angela: Three, zero, zero. Again, zero. Four, six...

Kevin: Nice.

Angela: Two, one...

Kevin: Oh, I hit three. I hit three.

Angela: God!


[Opening credits]

[Regional Manager Michael Scott is in his office with salesman Jim Halpert]

Michael: All right Jim. Your quarterlies look very good. How are things going at the library?

Jim: Oh, I told you. I couldn't close it. So...

Michael: So you've come to the master for guidance? Is this what you're saying, grasshopper?

Jim: Actually, you called me in here, but yeah.

Michael: All right. Well, let me show you how it's done. [On phone] Yes, I'd like to speak to your office manager, please. Yes, hello. This is Michael Scott. I am the Regional Manager of Dunder Mifflin Paper Products. Just wanted to talk to you manager-au-manger. [Quick cut scene of the office] All right. Done deal. Thank you very much, sir. You're a gentleman and a scholar. Oh, I'm sorry. OK. I'm sorry. My mistake. [Hangs up] That was a woman I was talking to, so... She had a very low voice. Probably a smoker, so... [Clears throat] So that's the way it's done.

[Michael is giving a tour of the office. He starts of by standing next to the company's logo]

Michael: I've, uh, I've been at Dunder Mifflin for 12 years, the last four as Regional Manager. If you want to come through here… [Enters the office] See we have the entire floor. So this is my kingdom, as far as the eye can see. This is our receptionist, Pam. Pam! Pam-Pam! Pam Beesly. Pam has been with us for... forever. Right, Pam?

Pam: Well. I don't know.

Michael: If you think she's cute now, you should have seen her a couple of years ago. [Growls]

Pam: What?

Michael: Any messages?

Pam: Uh, yeah. Just a fax.

Michael: Oh! Pam, this is from Corporate. How many times have I told you? There's a special filing cabinet for things from corporate.

Pam: You haven't told me.

Michael: It's called the wastepaper basket! [Throws the fax away and laughs] Look at that! Look at that face.

[Michael is in his office giving an interview to the camera crew.]

Michael: People say I am the best boss. They go, "God we've never worked in a place like this before. You're hilarious, and you get the best out of us." [Shows the camera his WORLD'S BEST BOSS mug] I think that pretty much sums it up. I found it at Spencer Gifts.

[Dwight is at his desk taking his phone out of his drawer.]

Dwight: [Singing] Shall I play for you? Pa rum pump um pum [Imitates heavy drumming] I have no gifts for you. Pa rum pump um pum [Imitates heavy drumming]

[Jim is giving an interview to the camera crew]

Jim:  My job is to speak to clients on the phone about... uh, quantities and type of copier paper. You know, whether we can supply it to them. Whether they can pay for it. And... I'm boring myself just talking about this.

[Michael comes over to Jim and Dwight's desks]

Michael: Whassup!

Jim: Whassup! I still love that after seven years.

Michael: Whassup!

Dwight: Whassup!

Michael: Whass...up!

Dwight: Whassup.

Michael: [Strains, grunts] What?

Jim: Nothing.

Michael: OK. All right. See you later.

Jim: All right. Take care.

Michael: Back to work.

[Angela and Kevin are shown having lunch. Jan Levinson-Gould then comes into the office.]

Jan: [On her cell phone] Just before lunch. That would be great.

[Michael is in an interview in his office.]

Michael: Corporate doesn't really interfere with me at all. Jan Levinson-Gould… [Comes out of his office] Jan, hello! [In interview] I call her Hilary Rodham Clinton. Right? Not to her face, because... well, not because I'm scared of her. Because I'm not. But, um... Yeah.

[Michael and Jan are having a meeting in his office while Pam transcribes their meeting]

Jan: Alright, was there anything you wanted to add to the agenda?

Michael: Um... Me no get an agenda.

Jan: What? I'm sorry?

Michael: I didn't get any agenda.

Jan: Well, I faxed one over to you this morning.

Michael: Really? I didn't... [looks at Pam] Did we get a fax this morning?

Pam: Uh, yeah, the one...

Michael: Why isn't it in my hand? A company runs on efficiency of communication, right? So what's the problem, Pam? Why didn't I get it?

Pam: You put in the garbage can that was a special filing cabinet.

Michael: Yeah, that was a joke. That was a joke that was actually my brother's, and... It was supposed to be with bills and it doesn't work great with faxes.

Jan: Do you want to look at mine?

Michael: Yeah, yeah. Lovely. Thank you.

Jan: OK. Since the last meeting, Ellen and the board have decided we can't justify a Scranton branch and a Stamford branch.

Michael: OK...

Jan: Michael, don't panic.

Michael: No, no, no, no, this is good. This is good. This is fine. Excellent.

Jan: No, no, no, Michael, listen OK. Don't panic. We haven't made... We haven't decided.

Michael: All the alarm bells are kind of going... ringie-dingie-ding!

Jan: I've spoken to Josh in Stamford. I've told him the same as you and it's up to either him or you to convince me that your branch can incorporate the other.

Michael: OK. No problem.

Jan: This does, however, mean that there is going to be downsizing. 

Michael: Me no wanna hear that, Jan. Because downsizing is a bitch. It is a real bitch. And I wouldn't wish that on Josh's men. I certainly wouldn't wish it on my men. Or women, present company excluded. Sorry. Uh, is Josh concerned about downsizing himself? Not downsizing himself but is he concerned about downsizing?

[Dwight is shown annoying Jim, before cutting back the the meeting between Michael and Jan.]

Michael: Question. How long do we have to... [Telephone rings] Oh uh, Todd Packer, terrific rep. Do you mind if I take it?

Jan: Go ahead.

Michael: Packman.

Packer: Hey, you big queen.

Michael: Oh, that's not appropriate.

Packer: Hey, is old Godzillary coming in today?

Michael: Uh, I don't know what you mean.

Packer: I've been meaning to ask her one question. Does the carpet match the drapes?

Michael: Oh, my God! Oh! That's... horrifying. Horrible. Horrible person.

Jan: So do you think we could keep a lid on this for now? I don't want to worry people unnecessarily.

Michael: No, absolutely. Under this regime, it will not leave this office. [Zips his lips] Like that.

[Phyllis and Stanley are discussing downsizing]

Phyllis: So what does downsizing actually mean?

Stanley: Well...

[Oscar is shown talking with Phyllis and Stanley in the kitchen]

Oscar: You guys better update your resumes just like I'm doing.

[Angela and Kevin are also discussing downsizing]

Angela: I bet it's gonna be me. Probably gonna be me.

Kevin: Yeah, it'll be you.

[Jim is talking with Pam at her desk]

Pam: I have an important question for you.

Jim: Yes?

Pam: Are you going to Angela's cat party on Sunday?

Jim: Yeah, stop. That is ridiculous.

[Michael is giving an interview]

Michael: Am I going to tell them? No, I am not going to tell them. I don't see the point of that. As a doctor, you would not tell a patient if they had cancer.

[The new temporary employee, Ryan Howard, arrives at the office.]

Michael: Hey.

Ryan: Hey.

Pam: This is Mr. Scott.

Michael: Guilty! Guilty as charged!

Ryan: Ryan Howard from the temp agency. Daniqua sent me down to start today.

Michael: Howard, like Moe Howard. Three Stooges.

Ryan: Yup.

Michael: Watch this. This is Moe. Nyuck-nyuck-nyuck-nyuck-nyuck. Mee! [Holds hand up for a high five] Ah, right here. Three Stooges. Oh, Pam. It's a guy thing, Pam. I'm sort of a student of comedy. Watch this. Here we go. [Yelling in cod German] I'm Hitler! Adolf Hitler! [Continues with cod German]

[Pam is giving an interview in the conference room]

Pam: I don't think it would be the worst thing if they let me go because then I might... I don't think it's many little girls' dream to be a receptionist. I like to do illustrations. Um... Mostly watercolor. A few oil pencil. Um, Jim thinks they're good.

[Pam is at her desk answering the phone.

Pam: Dunder Mifflin, this is Pam.

[Jim is on the phone with a client]

Jim: Sure. [Jim's stationary falls over] Mr. Davis, let me call you right back. Yeah, something just came up. Two minutes. Thank you very much. Dwight, what are you doing?

Dwight: What?

Jim: What are you doing?

Dwight: Just clearing my desk. I can't concentrate.

Jim: It's not on your desk.

Dwight: It's overlapping. It's all spilling over the edge. One word, two syllables. Demarcation.

[Dwight returns to his desk to see Jim making a fence out of pencils]

Dwight: You can't do that.

Jim: Why not?

Dwight: Safety violation. I could fall and pierce an organ.

Jim: [Crosses fingers] We'll see. [Dwight begins smashing pencils with his phone] This is why the whole downsizing thing just doesn't bother me.

Dwight: Downsizing?

[Dwight is giving an interview]

Dwight: Downsizing? I have no problem with that. I have been recommending downsizing since I first got here. I even brought it up in my interview. I say, bring it on.

[Michael is with Pam at reception]

Pam: You just still have these messages from yesterday.

Michael: Relax. Everything's under control. Uh, yeah. Yeah. That's important. Right. Oh this is so important, I should run to answer it. [Imitating Six-Million Dollar Man sound effect]

Pam: What?

Michael: Come on. Six-Million Dollar Man! Steve Austin! Actually, that would be a good salary for me, don't you think? Six million dollars? Memo to Jan. I deserve a raise.

Pam: Don't we all?

Michael: I'm sorry?

Pam: Nothing.

Michael: If you're unhappy with your compensation, maybe you should take it up with HR. OK. Not today, OK? Pam, just be professional. [Sighs]

[Michael is in an interview]

Michael: I think I'm a role model here. I think I garner people's respect

[Michael is imitating a PA system]

Michael: Attention all Dunder Mifflin employees, please. We have a meeting in the conference room, ASAP.

[Michael is an interview]

Michael: People I respect, heroes of mine, would be Bob Hope... Abraham Lincoln, definitely. Bono. And probably God would be the fourth one. And I just think all those people really helped the world in so many ways that it's really beyond words. It's really incalculable.

[Everyone is in the conference room listening to Michael]

Michael: Now I know there's some rumors out there and I just kind of want to set the record straight.

Dwight: I'm Assistant Regional Manager. I should know first.

Michael: Assistant to the Regional Manager.

Dwight: OK, um, can you just tell me please? Just tell me quietly. Can you whisper it in my ear?

Michael: I'm about to tell everybody. I'm just about to tell everybody.

Oscar: Can't you just tell us.

Dwight: Please, OK? Do you want me to tell 'em?

Michael: You don't know what it is. [Laughs]

Dwight: OK. You tell 'em. With my permission. Permission granted.

Michael: I don't need your permission. 

Dwight: Go ahead.

Michael: Corporate has deemed it appropriate to enforce an ultimatum upon me. And Jan is thinking about downsizing either the Stamford branch or this branch.

[Ryan is in the main office talking on the phone to someone]

Ryan: I heard they might be closing this branch down. That's just the rumor going around. This is my first day. I don't really know.

[The meeting in the conference room is shown where it left off]

Oscar: Yeah but Michael, what if they downsize here?

Michael: Not gonna happen.

Stanley: It could be out of your hands Michael.

Michael: It won't be out of my hands Stanley, OK. I promise you that.

Stanley: Can you promise that?

Dwight: On his mother's grave.

Michael: No.

Phyllis: What?

Michael: Well, yeah, it is a promise. And frankly, I'm a little insulted that you have to keep asking about it.

Stanley: It's just that we need to know.

Michael: I know. Hold on a second. I think Pam wanted to say something. Pam, you had a look that you wanted to ask a question just then.

Pam: I was in the meeting with Jan and she did say that it could be this branch that gets the axe.

Man: Are you sure about that?

Michael: Well, Pam maybe you should stick to the ongoing confidentiality agreement of meetings.

Dwight: Pam, information is power.

Stanley: You can't say for sure whether it'll be us or them, can you?

Michael: No, Stanley. No, you did not see me in there with her. I said if Corporate wants to come in here and interfere, then they're gonna have to go through me. Right? You can go mess with Josh's people, but I'm the head of this family, and you ain't gonna be messing with my children.

[Jim is giving an interview]

Jim: If I left, what would I do with all this useless information in my head? You know? Tonnage price of manila folders? Um, Pam's favorite flavor of yogurt, which is mixed berry.

[Jim is shown looking at Pam from his desk. Pam is then shown giving an interview]

Pam: Jim said mixed berries? Well, yeah, he's on to me. Um... [Laughs]

[Michael is showing Ryan around the office]

Michael: Watch out for this guy. Dwight Schrute in the building. This is Ryan, the new temp.

Ryan: What's up? Nice to meet you.

Michael: Introduce yourself. Be polite. 

Dwight: Dwight Schrute, Assistant Regional Manager.

Michael: Assistant to the Regional Manager. So, uh, Dwight tell him about the kung fu and the car and everything.

Dwight: Uh... yeah I got a '78 280Z. Bought it for $1,200. Fixed it up. It's now worth three grand.

Michael: That's his profit.

Dwight: New engine, new suspension, I got a respray. I've got some photos. [Dwight opens his drawer] Ugh! Dammit! Jim!

Michael: OK. Hold on, hold on. The judge is in session. What is the problem here?

Dwight: He put my stuff in Jell-O again. [Takes out his stapler, which is encased in Jell-O; Pam is seen laughing] That's real professional thanks. That's the third time and it wasn't funny the first two times either Jim.

[Dwight is giving an interview]

Dwight: It's OK here, but people sometimes take advantage because it's so relaxed. I'm a volunteer Sheriff's Deputy on the weekends. And you cannot screw around there. That's sort of one of the rules.

[Cuts back to when Dwight showed Michael his stapler]

Michael: What is that?

Dwight: That is my stapler.

Michael: No, no, no. Do not take it out. You have to eat it out of there, because there are starving people in the world [Turns to camera] which I hate, and it is a waste of that kind of food.

Dwight: OK you know what, you can be a witness. [Points to Ryan] Can you reprimand him?

Jim: [Eating Jell-O] How do you know it was me?

Dwight: It's always you. Are you going to discipline him or not?

Michael: Discipline. Kinky! [Laughs] All right, here's the deal you guys. The thing about a practical joke is you have to know when to start and as well as when to stop.

Dwight: Yeah.

Michael: And yeah, Jim this is the time to stop putting Dwight's personal effects into Jell-O.

Jim: OK. Dwight, I'm sorry, because I have always been your biggest flan.

Michael: [Laughing] Nice. That's the way it is around here. It just kind of goes round and round.

Ryan: You should've put him in custardy.

Michael: Hey! Yes! New guy! He scores.

Dwight: OK, that's great. I guess what I'm most concerned with is damage to company property. That's all.

Michael: Pudding. Pudding... I'm trying to think of another dessert to do.

[Jim is with Pam at reception]

Jim: Do you like going out at the end of the week for a drink?

Pam: Yeah.

Jim: That's why we're all going out. So we can have an end-of-the-week-drink.

Pam: So when are we going out?

Jim: Tonight, hopefully.

Pam: OK. Yeah.

[Pam's fiance Roy comes in]

Roy: Hey, man.

Jim: What's going on?

Roy: Hey, baby.

Pam: Hey.

[Pam is in an interview]

Pam: Roy's my fiance. We've been engaged about three years. We were supposed to get married in September but I think we're gonna get married in the spring.

[Cuts back to Pam, Roy and Jim at reception]

Pam: Do you mind if I go out for a drink with these guys?

Roy: No, no. Come on. Let's get out of here and go home.

Pam: OK. I'm gonna be a few minutes. So it's only twenty past five. I still have to do my faxes.

Jim: You know what? You should come with us. Because you know we're all going out and it could be a good chance for you to see what people are like outside the office. I think it could be fun.

Roy: It sounds good. Seriously, we've gotta get going.

Jim: Yeah, yeah. [Noticing Roy's bag] Um... What's in the bag?

Roy: Just tell her I'll talk to her later. [Leaves]

Jim: No, definitely. All right, dude. Awesome. Will do.

[Jim is in an interview]

Jim: Do I think I'll be invited to the wedding? [Scratches head]

[Michael is with Ryan in his office]

Michael: So have you felt the vibe yet? We work hard, we play hard. Sometimes we play hard when we should be working hard. Right? I guess the atmosphere that I've created here is that I'm a friend first, and a boss second... and probably an entertainer third. [Knock at door] Just a second. Right? Oh, hey do you like The Jamie Kennedy Experiment? Punk'd and all that kind of stuff?

Ryan: Yeah.

Michael: You are gonna be my accomplice. Just go along with it, OK?

Ryan: All right.

Michael: Just follow my lead. Don't pimp me, all right? Come in. So, uh, Corporate just said that I don't want to...

[Pam comes in]

Pam: You got a fax.

Michael: Oh, thank you. Pam, can you come in here for a sec. Just have a seat. I was gonna call you in anyway. You know Ryan. As you know, there is going to be downsizing. And you have made my life so much easier in that I am going to have to let you go first.

Pam: What? Why?

Michael: Why? Well, theft and stealing.

Pam: Stealing? What am I supposed to have stolen?

Michael: Post-it Notes.

Pam: Post-it Notes? What are those worth, 50 cents?

Michael: 50 cents, yeah. If you steal a thousand Post-It Notes at 50 cents apiece, and you know, you've made a profit... margin. You're gonna run us out of business, Pam.

Pam: Are you serious?

Michael: Yeah. I am.

Pam: I can't believe this. I mean I have never even stolen as much as a paperclip and you're firing me.

Michael: But the best thing about it is that we're not going to have to give you any severance pay. Because that is gross misconduct and... Just clean out your desk. I'm sorry.

Michael: [Pam starts crying] You been X'd punk! [Laughing] Surprise! It's a joke. We were joking around. See? OK. He was in on it. He was my accomplice. And it was kind of a morale booster thing. And we were showing the new guy around, giving him the feel of the place. So you... God, we totally got you.

Pam: You're a jerk! [Leaves]

Michael: I don't know about that.

[Michael is in an interview]

Michael: What is the most important thing for a company? Is it the cash flow? Is it the inventory? Nuh-uh. It's the people. The people. My proudest moment here was not when I increased profits by 17% or when I cut expenses without losing a single employee. No, no, no, no, no. It was a young Guatemalan guy. First job in the country, barely spoke English. He came to me, and said, [Hispanic accent] "Mr. Scott, would you be the godfather of my child?" [Normal voice] Wow. Wow. Didn't work out in the end. We had to let him go. He sucked.

[Pam meets with Jim just as he is about to leave]

Pam: Hey.

Jim: Hey. How are things?

Pam: Good. I thought you were going out for a drink with...

Jim: Oh no, I just decided not to. How's your headache?

Pam: It's better, thanks. 

Jim: Good. Good. 

Pam: Yeah.

Jim: That's great.

Pam: Is...?

Jim: Yeah?

Pam: Um... Are you...

Jim: Am I walking out?

Pam: Yes.

Jim: Yes, I... Do you want to...

Pam: Yeah.

Jim: Great. Let me just…  [Car horn honking] Oh, Roy.

Pam: Yeah. Listen, have a nice weekend. [She leaves]

Jim: Yeah, definitely. You too. Enjoy it. [looks at camera] You know what, just come here. [Puts Michael's mug, which is now in Jell-O inside his office]